7.4 The rule also provides that the application (Form No. 10G)
made by the assessee shall be disposed of within six months of the
date on which the application was made. However, the time taken
by the assessee in providing information called for by the CIT or in
responding to enquiries made by him shall be excluded while
calculating the aforesaid limitation period of six months.

7.5 No formal procedure has been laid down either in the Act or
the Rule for disposal of the applications. However, the fund or
institution has a right to be heard before its application can be
rejected. Orders passed by the Commissioner can now be
challenged before the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal under Section
253. It is noteworthy that the Proviso to Section 80G(5)(vi) under
which approvals granted by the Commissioner had a maximum
validity period of five years has been deleted with effect from
1.10.2009. Accordingly, approval once granted is now valid forever
unless withdrawn by the Commissioner where he is satisfied that
the activities of the institution or fund are not genuine or are not
being carried on in accordance with its objects.

7.6 Two decisions regarding approval of a trust etc. under Section
12AA are noteworthy. In East India Industries (Madras) Pvt. Ltd.*°
the Hon. Madras High Court held that the question whether donation
to an institution are deductible under Section 80G has to be decided
with reference to all the objects of the institution. If some objects
are non charitable, the institution is not eligible for approval. In
Upper Ganges Sugar Mills Ltd.*!, the Hon. Supreme Court has
held that even if one object is wholly or substantially religious in
nature, the institution is not eligible for approval under Section 80G.

3 [1997] 65 ITR 611 (SC).
31.227 ITR 578 (SC).

26

CHAPTER-8

APPROVAL OF AWARD OR REWARD
UNDER SECTION 10(17A)

8.1 This Section exempts from tax any payment made, whether in
cash or kind, in pursuance of an award instituted in the public interest
by the Central Government, the State Government or by a body
approved in this behalf by the central government. Similarly, a reward
by the central or state government for the purposes approved by
the central government in this behalf in the public interest is also
exempt from tax. Thus, approval by the central government in the
public interest is the only necessary precondition for exemption of
the award or reward. In order to get approval for the exemption of
awards from tax in the hands of the recipients, the institution is
required to furnish information on the following points:-
1. Name, address & PAN of the institution
2. Assessment Year for which approval is sought
3. Instrument of creation of the institution containing

inter alia MOA and rules & regulations
4. Whether the institution is registered under Section

12A,or notified or approved under Section 10(23),

10(23C), 35(1)(ii) or 35(1 (iii)
5. Purpose of award

6. Copy of the scheme of the award, and rules
and regulations for grant of award

27
