15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

Details of nature, quantity and value of contributions (other
than cash) and the manner in which such contributions have
been utilised

Details of shares, security or other property purchased by or
on behalf of the trust from any interested person as specified
in sub-section (2) of section 13

Whether any part of the income or any property of the
association was used or applied, in a manner which results
directly or indirectly in conferring any benefit, amenity or
perquisite (whether converted into money or not), on any
interested person as specified in sub-section (3) of section
13? If so, details thereof.

Amount deemed to be income of the trust if sub-section (3)
of section 11, is made applicable.

The income that would have been assessable if the trust had
not enjoyed the benefit of section 10(23C)(iv) or (v)

Certified that the above information is true to the best of my
knowledge and belief.

Place Signature
Date. Designation
Full Address
Notes :
1. Inthis form, the term “trust” also includes a fund or institution

or any other legal obligation.

The application form should be sent to the Chief Commissioner
or Director General whom the Central Board of Direct Taxes
may authorise to act as prescribed authority, for the purposes
of sub-clause (iv) or sub-clause (v) of clause (23C) of section
10, through the Commissioner of Income-tax or Director of
Income-tax (Exemptions) having jurisdiction over the trust or

72

institution. Four copies of the application form along with the
enclosures should be sent.

Copies of the following documents should be annexed:-
(i) Deed of trust/memorandum and Articles of Association.

di) A list of trustees enclosing settlor/members of the
Governing Council.

(iii) A photocopy of the latest certificate under section 80G
issued by the Commissioner of Income-tax.

(iv) True copies of the assessment orders passed for the last
three years.

(v) Photocopy of communication from the Commissioner of
Income-tax with reference to the application of the trust/
institution for a registration under section 12A.

The applicant shall furnish any other documents or information
as required by the Chief Commissioner or Director General
or any authority authorised by the Chief Commissioner or
Director General.

73
