(vit)

(ix)

(x)

accumulated or set apart for future application for definite
and specified purposes. For this purpose, the assessee must
a) give a notice in writing (in Form No.10) to the Assessing
Officer within the due date of filing of return of income b)
invest the money so accumulated or set apart only in specified
modes [see Annexure-IV]. The maximum period for which
such income can be accumulated or set apart is 5 years.

Ifincome of the trust or institution includes any income from
business, such business must be incidental to the objectives
of the trust, and separate accounts must be maintained for
such business.

If the trust or institution had taxable income during the year
without giving effect to Sections 1] and 12, it must file a
return of income.

Capital gains, if any during the year (whether short or long-
term), must be reinvested in a new capital asset in order to
be deemed to have been applied to charitable purposes.

Don’ts

@

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

Property must not be held under trust for private religious
purposes but for the benefit of public.

The trust or institution must not have been created or
established for the benefit of'a particular religious community
or caste (other than SC/ST/Backward Classes, women and
children).

Under the terms of the trust or rules of the institution, no part of
its income must directly or indirectly be for the benefit of the
author/founder/trustee/ manager or other such interested person
(for a list of such persons, see Annexure-V).

No part of the income or property of the trust or institution
must actually be used or applied during the previous year
either directly or indirectly for the benefit of any such
person.

44

(vy)

(vi)

(vii)

Q.8

Ans.

None of its funds should be invested or continue to remain
invested during the previous year otherwise than in the modes
specified under Section 11(5) (this is subject to specified
exceptions such as assets held as corpus, accretions to the
same by way of bonus shares, debentures acquired under
certain circumstances etc.).

Anonymous donations, if any, will be taxable at the rate of
30 per cent [please see Chapter-5 (Para-5.4) for details].

The purposes for which income is sought to be accumulated
or set apart for future accumulation must not be vague or
non-specific, and cannot travel beyond the objects of the
trust. The amount so accumulated cannot be applied to a
different purpose, must continue to remain invested in the
specified modes, and cannot be credited or paid to any other
trust or institution.

What is the procedure for registration of a trust by the
Commissioner of Income Tax?

The procedure for registration by CIT under Section 12AA
is briefly as follows:

1. Application to be made by the trust or institution in Form
10A accompanied by, (a) original/certified copy of trust
deed/instrument and an extra copy, (if created without
an instrument, original or certified copy of documents
evidencing creation of the trust/institution and an extra
copy), (b) in case the trust is not a new one, two copies
of accounts for preceding three years;

2. CIT to verify the application and call for any documents/
information necessary to satisfy himself about the
genuineness of the activities of the trust;

3. The CIT to pass order in writing granting or refusing
registration (where he refuses registration, he must give
an opportunity of being heard to the trust/institution);

45
