CHAPTER-7

APPROVAL UNDER SECTION 80G(5)

7.1 Apart from exemption of income of the trust or institution
itself under Sections 10(23C), 11 and 12 as described in the foregoing
pages, a donor to such entities is also entitled to benefit of deduction
from his own income on account of the donations made by him.
The extent of deduction allowable is prescribed in Section 80G(1)(i).
While contributions to certain funds/entities such as the Prime
Minister’s National Relief Fund, contributions to a university or
educational institution of national eminence, and to specified funds
set up by state governments for disaster relief etc. are entitled to
100 per cent deduction, others are eligible for exemption to the
extent of 50 per cent of the amount donated. It may be noted here
that with effect from 01.04.2013, donations exceeding Rs.10,000/-
must be made other than in cash in order to be eligible for deduction.
Section 80G(5) lays down the preconditions which must be satisfied
cumulatively before a trust or institution can qualify for approval
under Section 80G. These conditions are summarized as under:-

@ The income of the fund or institution would not be includible
in its total income by virtue of provisions contained in Sections
11 and 12, Section 10(23AA) or Section 10(23C);

(i) As per instrument under which the fund or institution
was created and as per rules governing it, no part of its
income or assets is transferable, or to be applied for any
purpose other than charitable purpose. Charitable purpose
here would not include religious purpose in view of
Explanation 3 below Section 80G. However, Section

24

80G(5B) permits application upto 5 per cent of the income
for the year towards religious purposes;

(ii) The fund or institution is not expressed to be for the
benefit of any particular religious community or caste;

(iv) It maintains regular books of account regarding its
receipts and expenditure;

(v) The institution or fund is either constituted as a public
charitable trust, or a society registered under Societies
Registration Act (or its equivalent legislation), or a
company registered under Section 25 of the Companies
Act, or a statutory university or recognised educational
institution, or an institution financed by the central or state
government;

(vi) The institution or fund is approved by the Commissioner
(or Director) in accordance with the rules made in this
behalf.

7.2 The requirement for approval by the CIT/DIT thus stems from

the condition mentioned at (vi) above.

7.3, Rule 11AA prescribes that an application for approval under
Section 80G shall be made in triplicate in Form No.10G
(Annexure-VI). It shall be accompanied by copies of following
documents: -

G) _ order of registration under Section 12A or notification
under Section 10 (23C);

(ii) note on activities conducted since inception or in last
three years, whichever is less; and

(ii) accounts of the institution since inception or for the last
three years, whichever is less.

25
