29 66

the word “applied” means “to put to use” “to turn to use” or “to make
use” or “to put to practical use.” '? The Madras High Court in Kannika
Parameswari Devasthanam & Charities *° held that if the expenditure is on
capital account on object (s) contained in the object clause, the expenditure
will amount to application of income. Where the assessee had constructed
a building out of accumulated and borrowed funds and the building was
later rented out and a part of the rent was used for repayment of loan, the
Karnataka High Court held *! that such repayment of loan was application
of income. Courts have also held that donation by one charitable trust to
another would also amount to application of income by the donor trust.”

The law also provides for relaxation of the rule that at least 85 per
cent of the income must be applied to charitable/ religious purposes during
the previous year. Under Clause (2) of the Explanation to Section 11(1), it
has been provided that where income so applied by a trust or institution
falls short of 85 percent of the income derived during the year because
such income was not actually received by the assessee during the year, it
would be sufficient for the assessee to apply such amount in the year in
which it is actually received or in the immediately following previous
year. Where the amount applied during the year fall short of 85 percent
for any other reason (i.e., for reason other than non-receipt during the
year), it can be applied in the year immediately following the previous
year in which such income was derived. In either of these circumstances,
the assesses is required to exercise its option of postponing the application
of income in writing before the due date for filing of return under Section
139 ofthe Act. Where the assessee has duly exercised such an option, the
said amount will be treated as having been applied to charitable/religious
purposes in the previous year in which the income was derived. As a
natural corollary, the assessee cannot claim the amount as application of
income again in the year in which it is actually applied.

The Rajasthan High Court in Mewar Charitable Foundation [1987] 164 ITR
439 (Raj.); The Gujarat High Court in Swetamber Murti Pujak Mandal [1995]
211 ITR 293 (Guj.).

2°[1982] 133 ITR 779 (Mad.).

21 Janmabhumi Press Trust [2000] 242 ITR 457 (Kar).

?2JK Charitable Trust [1992] 196 ITR 31 (All.); Nirmala Bakubhai Foundation
[1997] 226 ITR 394 (Guj.).

16

(i) Income applied outside India (in certain cases): Section 11(1)(c)
permits deduction of expenditure incurred outside India provided that
such application of income promotes international welfare in which India
is interested. However, for deduction of such expenditure, prior approval
of the Board is required.

(ii) Corpus Donation: Corpus donations are to be excluded entirely
from the assessable income of the trust or institution under Section 11(1)(d).
In other words, voluntary contributions received with a specific direction
from the donor that they shall form part of the corpus will get excluded
from the taxable income of the trust or institution under Section 1 1(1)(d).
The requirements of application during the year, the quantum of
accumulation allowable and the procedural requirements such as filing of
forms or exercising an option in writing etc., would not apply to these
amounts.

(iv) Capital Gains: Section 11(1A) of the Act deals with capital gains
arising or accruing to a charitable trust or institution. The position of law
is that in the case ofa charitable trust or institution eligible for exemption
under Section 11, capital gains, whether long term or short term, will be
deemed to have been applied to charitable purposes and will be exempt
from tax to the extent they are reinvested in a new capital asset. The
provision applies with necessary modifications to cases where the capital
asset is held only partly (and not wholly) for religious or charitable purpose.

(v) Income “accumulated or set apart for application”: Under Section
11(1)(a), in addition to the income actually applied to charitable/religious
purposes, income of the trust/institution to the extent of 15 per cent of the
income derived during the year, if accumulated or set apart for future
application to such purposes, is also eligible for exemption. No procedural
requirements have been laid down for such accumulation of upto 15 per
cent of the income derived during the year.

Apart from accumulation of 15 per cent of income permitted under Section
11(1)(a), however, a trust or institution is permitted under Section 11(2) to
accumulate or set apart income for specific purpose(s). Such accumulation
or setting apart of income has to be for definite and concrete purposes
and should not be vague. The Calcutta High Court has held that while the
purposes for which the income is accumulated cannot under any
circumstances travel beyond the objects of the trust, listing all the objects

17
