List of research facilities or assets acquired by the applicant:
G) Plant and machinery.
(i) Land and building along with cost of acquisition.

(ii) Any other research facility/asset along with cost of
acquisition.

Research subjects and projects undertaken by the applicant:

G) Research projects completed by the organization during
last three years, if any.

(ii) Research projects which have been taken up during the
year and research projects which are underway from
the past years.

(ii) Research papers published in any eminent national or
international research journal.

Other details of scientific research or research in social science
or statistical research :

G) Newproducts, processes, methods, techniques developed.

(ii) Improvements in existing products, processes, methods,
techniques. (iii) Import substitution.

(iv) Patents filed, obtained, if any, and if so, in whose name?

(v) Whether products, processes, methods and techniques
mentioned at (i) above have been commercialized or
implemented and if so, by whom?

(vi) New theories/models developed.

(vii) New hypothesis which has been widely accepted.
(viii) Any copyrights applied for/obtained.

(ix) Earnings from patents or registered trade marks, if any.

Enclose details of seminars, conferences, workshops and
training courses, etc., conducted by the applicant during the

86

last three years and a brief note regarding the relevance of
such exchanges to the research area or activity carried on by
the applicant.

Programmes contemplated for research in future and financial
projections to meet the likely expenditure on such programmes.

Gi) Sources of income of the applicant (for the last three
years)

(ii) Indicate assessment particulars:
(PAN, Ward/Circle if assessed to tax)
(ili) When was the last return of income furnished?

Amount received by the scientific research association,
university, college or other institution and actually applied for
research conducted by it or its faculty members or enrolled
students during the last three years:

Year | Amounts received

Amounts actually utilized
for research out of the
amounts at column (2)

(1) (2) (3)
Donation | Grant Total
11. Attach a list of donors giving (their names, complete postal

addresses and the amounts paid by each of them to the
association during the last three years. (Mention PAN of
donors giving sums exceeding fifty thousand rupees)

Investments made out of amounts mentioned at 10 above:

87
