use, are applicable to such a fund, trust, institution etc. As in the
case of trusts or institutions claiming exemption under Sections 11
and 12, a fund/trust/ institution seeking to claim exemption under
Section 10(23C)(iv), (v), (vi) or (via) is also required to get its
accounts audited where its total income without giving effect to
the said provisions exceeds the maximum amount not chargeable
to tax during the year.

9.7 The provisions of Section 11(5) relating to the forms and modes
in which funds of the assessee trust, institution, etc. are to be
invested are also applicable, subject to the specified exceptions
including assets held as part of corpus, contributions received and
maintained in kind in certain circumstances, etc.*° Similarly, as
regards business income too, provisions parallel to Section 11(4A)*
have been incorporated into Section 10(23C) to specify that business
income of such a fund, trust, institution etc. shall not be exempt
unless the business is incidental to the attainment of its objects and
separate books of account are maintained by it in respect of such
business.

9.8 As in the case of trust or institutions claiming exemption under
Section 11, assessees seeking to claim exemption under Section
10(23C) too are barred from paying any amounts accumulated for
future application to any other entity registered under Section 12ZAA
or approved under Section 10(23C)(iv),(v),(vi) or (via). Such
amounts, if paid or credited to any such entity shall not be treated
as application of income to the objects of the fund, trust, institution
etc., but shall be treated as its income chargeable to tax in the
hands of the assessee fund, trust, institution etc.

9.9 Anonymous donations (donations in respect of which the
assessee fund/ trust/ institution etc. does not maintain records of
identity indicating the name and address, or other particulars of the

* See Clause (b) of the Third Proviso to Section 10(23C)
6 See sub-para (vi) of para-5.5 [Chapter-5].

32

donor as are prescribed), also, will not be exempt but shall be included
in the total income of the assessee fund, trust, institution etc.

9.10 Application for approval by the prescribed authority under
Sub-clause (iv) or (v) of Secton 10(23C) has to be made in Form
No.56 (Annexure-VII), while application for approval by the
prescribed authority under Sub-clause (vi) or (via) has to be made
in form No. 56-D (Annexure-VIII).

9.11 It is noteworthy that the form to be filled up for notification
under Sub-clauses (iv) and (v) is the same, namely, Form No. 56,
and, similarly, the form to be filled up for approval under Sub-clauses
(vi) and (via) is the same, namely, Form No. 56D. However, the
considerations which the prescribed authority will keep in mind are
different in each case. For Sub-clause (iv), consideration has to be
given to the charitable objects of the fund or institution and its
territorial importance. Sub-clause (v) lays greater emphasis on the
manner in which the affairs are administered so as to ensure that
the income is applied properly for the objects of the trust. Sub-
clause (vi) lays emphasis on the factual position, namely, that the
university or institution should be existing solely for educational
purposes and not for profit. Therefore, if the aims and objects of
the institution include objects other than educational, then such an
institution will not be eligible for approval. For the same reason, the
issue as to how the income of the institution is actually applied
assumes great significance for the purposes of this sub-clause.
Sub-clause (via) lays emphasis on existence solely for philanthropic
purposes and not for the purposes of profit. Therefore, the form
should be carefully filled up having regard to provision contained in
the relevant sub-clause under which approval is being sought.

Period of Validity - Circular No : 7/2010 dt 27-10-2010.

9.12 The prescribed authority is also empowered to withdraw
the approval granted to any such fund, trust, institution etc. where
subsequent to grant of approval, the authority is satisfied that the

33
