ANNEXURE -VII
FORM NO. 56
[See rule 2C]

Application for grant of exemption or continuance thereof

under section 10(23C)(iv) and (v) for the year
Name and address of registered office of the trust/institution

Legal status, whether trust or registered society/others. Please
enclose a copy of certificate of registration

Objects of the trust
Names and addresses of the trustees/office bearers

Geographic area over which the activities of the trust are
performed. Enclose details of work done in different places
with addresses of branch offices and names and addresses
of office bearers in these places.

Enclose copies of memorandum of association, articles of
association, trust deed, rules/regulations of the trust or
institution and those of other institutions like schools, hospitals,
etc., managed by the trust/institution

Enclose copies of audited accounts and balance sheet for the
last three years along with a note on the examination of
accounts and on the activities as reflected in the accounts
and in the annual reports with special reference to the
appropriation of income towards objects of the trust.

Has the trust received any donations from a foreign country
to which the provisions of Foreign Contribution (Regulation)
Act, 1976, applies? Give details

Give assessment particulars :-

@)  Ward/Circle of jurisdiction and the last income returned
and assessed with permanent account number/GIR
number

70

10.

11.

12.

13.

(ii) _ Is the income exempt under section 11?
(ii) Is any recovery of tax, etc., outstanding against the trust?
(iv) Whether any penalties have been initiated/levied?

Total income of the trust including (voluntary contributions)
for the previous year relevant to the assessment year for or
from which the exemption is sought

Amount of income referred to above that has been or deemed
to have been utilised wholly and exclusively for the objects of
the trust income deemed to have been utilised shall have the
meaning assigned to it in sub-sections (1) and (1A) of section
ll

Amount accumulated for the purposes mentioned in column
(3) above.

(i) Details of modes in which the funds of the trust are
invested or deposited showing the nature, value and
income from the investment

(ii) Details of funds not invested in the modes specified in
section 11(5):

SL
No

Name and | In the case of | Nominal Income from
address of | a company, value of the

the number and the investment
concern class of invesment
shares held

14.

G) Is the trust carrying on any business (give details)?

(ii) Is the business incidental to the attainment of its objects?

71
