1.3 Needless to say, much time has elapsed since the publication
of that booklet, and, in the meantime, several changes have taken
place in the legal provisions as well as in the procedural requirements
for claiming exemption. In this updated version, every effort has
been made to incorporate the changes in law and procedures upto
assessment year 2014-15.

1.4 Like its earlier version, this booklet contains a brief narration
of law and procedures as they stand at the time of its publication.
The forms which have to be used by the assessees in order to avail
of the benefit of various provisions are compiled as Annexures to
the booklet. It may be noted, however, that this booklet is not meant
to be an exhaustive or authoritative exposition of law. In case of
any doubt, taxpayers may please refer to the relevant Acts, Rules
and the latest judicial decisions on the subject.

CHAPTER-2

ADMINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE AND
AUTHORITIES

2.1. The provisions relating to the institutions and entities entitled
to exemption under the direct tax laws are administered mainly by
Director General of Income Tax (Exemption) and the Directorates
headed by the Director of Income Tax (Exemption) working under
the Director General of Income Tax (Exemption) in seven cities,
namely, Delhi, Kolkata, Anmedabad, Mumbai, Chennai, Hyderabad
and Bangalore. In places not covered under the jurisdiction of
aforesaid seven Directorates, the said provisions are administered
by the territorial Commissioners of Income Tax (CsIT).

2.2. The hierarchy of central government authorities dealing with
charitable and religious trusts and institutions entitled to various
kinds of tax incentives under the I-T Act is briefly as follows:

(i) The Central Government;
(i) The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT);
(iii) The Director General of Income Tax (DGIT);

(iv) The Director/Commissioner of Income Tax (DIT/
CIT);

(v) The Additional/Joint Director/Commissioner of Income
Tax (Addl.DIT/ Addl.CIT/Jt.DIT/Jt.CIT);

(vi) The Deputy/Assistant Director/Commissioner of
Income Tax (DDIT/ DCIT/ADIT/ACIT);
