ANNEXURE

STATEMENT OF PARTICULARS

I. APPLICATION OF INCOME FOR CHARITABLE OR
RELIGIOUS PURPOSES

1. Amount of income of the previous year applied to charitable or religious
purposes in India during that year

2. Whether the trust/institution * has exercised the option under clause (2)
of the Explanation to section 11(1) ? If so, the details of the amount of
income deemed to have been applied to charitable or religious purposes
in India during the previous year

3. Amount of income accumulated or set apart* /finally set apart for
application to charitable or religious purposes, to the extent it does not
exceed 25 per cent of the income derived from property held under trust
wholly * /in part only for such purposes.

4. Amount of income eligible for exemption under section 11(1)(c) (Give
details).
5. Amount of income, in addition to the amount referred to in item 3 above,

accumulated or set apart for specified purposes under section 11(2).

6. Whether the amount of income mentioned in item 5 above has been
invested or deposited in the manner laid down in section 11(2)(b) ? If
so, the details thereof.

7. Whether any part of the income in respect of which an option was
exercised under clause (2) of the Explanation to section 11(1) in any
earlier year is deemed to be income of the previous year under section
11(1B) ? If so, the details thereof.

8. Whether, during the previous year, any part of income accumulated or set
apart for specified purposes under section 11(2) in any earlier year-

(a) has been applied for purposes other than charitable or religious
purposes or has ceased to be accumulated or set apart for application
thereto, or

(b) has ceased to remain invested in any security referred to in section
11(2)(b)(i) or deposited in any account referred to in section

56

II.

11(2)(b)(ii) or section 11(2)(b)(iii), or

(c) has not been utilised for purposes for which it was accumulated or
set apart during the period for which it was to be accumulated or set
apart, or in the year immediately following the expiry thereof? If so,
the details thereof.

APPLICATION OR USE OF INCOME OR
PROPERTY FOR THE BENEFIT OF PERSONS
REFERRED TO IN SECTION 13(3)

Whether any part of the income or property of the * trust/institution
was lent, or continues to be lent, in the previous year to any person
referred to in section 13(3) (hereinafter referred to in this Annexure as
such person)? If so, give details of the amount, rate of interest charged
and the nature of security, if any

Whether any land, building or other property of the * trust/institution
was made, or continued to be made, available for the use of any such
person during the previous year? If so, give details of the property and
the amount of rent or compensation charged, if any

Whether any payment was made to any such person during the previous
year by way of salary, allowance or otherwise? If so, give details

Whether the services of the * trust/institution were made available to any
such person during the previous year? If so, give details thereof together
with remuneration or compensation received, if any

Whether any share, security or other property was purchased by or on
behalf of the * trust/institution during the previous year from any such
person? If so, give details thereof together with the consideration paid

Whether any share, security or other property was sold by or on behalf
of the * trust/institution during the previous year to any such person?
If so, give details thereof together with the consideration received

Whether any income or property of the * trust/institution was diverted
during the previous year in favour of any such person? If so, give details
thereof together with the amount of income or value of property so
diverted

Whether the income or property of the * trust/institution was used or
applied during the previous year for the benefit of any such person in
any other manner? If so, give details

*Strike out whichever is not applicable.

S7
