year under consideration.

Q.15 What is the extent of tax deduction available to a donor

Ans.

who contributes to charitable or religious trust or
institution?

Under Section 80 G of the I-T Act, donors to such
organizations are eligible for deduction as a percentage of
the amount donated by them. In most cases the rate of
exemption applicable is 50 per cent of the amount donated.
For a donor to claim such exemption, the trust or institution
to which the donation has been made must be one which
has been approved by the Income Tax Department for this

purpose.

Q.16 What is the procedure to be followed by a trust or

Ans.

institution for obtaining such approval under Section
80G?

The legal and procedural requirements to be fulfilled before
a trust or institution can get approval under Section 80G have
been discussed in detail in Chapter 7. The trust or institution
which fulfils the conditions mentioned in Para 7.1 can make
an application in Form No. 10G along with copies of relevant
documents mentioned in Para 7.3.

Q.17 What is the timeframe available to the Commissioner

Ans.

of income tax to decide on an application made by a
trust or institution under Section 80G? For what period
is the approval granted by the Commissioner valid?

The Commissioner of Income Tax to whom the application
is made has to dispose of the application within six months
(excluding the period taken by the assessee for providing
the information called for by the Commissioner in the process
of granting approval).

After recent legal amendments, an approval granted to a

48

trust or institution under Section 80 G is now valid for all
future years unless it is withdrawn by the Commissioner
where he is satisfied that the activities of the trust or institution
are not genuine or are not being carried on in accordance
with its objects.

Q.18 What type of organizations can claim the benefit of

Ans.

exemption under Section 10(23C)?

Apart from the various funds set up by the government (such
as the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund) which are
specifically mentioned in Section 10(23C), a university or
other educational institution, a hospital or other such institution
as well as various other religious or charitable funds, trusts,
institutions are eligible for the benefit of Section 10(23C)
provided they are approved for this purpose by the prescribed
authority [the jurisdictional Chief Commissioner of Income
Tax or Director General of Income Tax(E)]. The detailed
procedure for seeking approval and the effect of grant of
such approval by the prescribed authority have been
discussed in detail in Chapter-10 (Para- 9.4 to 9.12). The
prescribed authority is also empowered to withdraw the
approval already granted if it is satisfied that the assessee
fund or trust or institution has violated the legal requirements
regarding application of income, investment of funds,
genuineness of activities etc. However, the prescribed
authority is required to give a reasonable opportunity to the
assessee before withdrawing approval.

Q.19 What type of associations are entitled to seek

notification under Section 35(1)(ii) or 35(1)(iii) and to
exemption under Section 10(21)? What is the
procedure for claiming such exemption?

49
