G) Fixed deposits with banks

(ii) Fixed deposits with companies

(iii) Securities

(iv) Shares, Debentures, etc.

(v) Cash in hand

(vi) Others, if any, not covered under (i) to (v)

13. Enclose copy of audited annual accounts of the university,
college or other institution for the last three years.

Certified that the above information is true to the best of my
knowledge and belief.

Date :_ Signature

Place: Designation

Full Address

ANNXURE-XI

Conditions subject to which approval is to be granted to a
research association under clause (ii) or clause (iii) of sub-
section (1) of section 35.

5D. (1) The sole object of the applicant research association shall
be to undertake scientific research or research in social
science or statistical research as the case may be.

(2) The applicant research association shall carry on the research
activity by itself.

(3) The research association seeking approval under clause (ii)
or clause (iii) of sub-section (1) of section 35 shall maintain
books of account and get such books audited by an accountant
as defined in the Explanation to sub-section (2) of section 288

88

(4)

(5)

(6)

and furnish the report of such audit duly signed and verified
by such accountant to the Commissioner of Income-tax or
the Director of Income-tax having jurisdiction over the case,
by the due date of furnishing the return of income under sub-
section (1) of section 139.

The research association shall maintain a separate statement
of donations received and amount applied for scientific
research or research in social science or statistical research
and a copy of such statement duly certified by the auditor
shall accompany the report of audit referred to in sub-rule

(3).

The research association shall, by the due date of furnishing
the return of income under sub-section (1) of section 139,
furnish a statement to the Commissioner of Income-tax or
Director of Income-tax containing-

G) a detailed note on the research work undertaken by it
during the previous year;

(i) a summary of research articles published in national or
international journals during the year;

(ii) any patent or other similar rights applied for or registered
during the year;

(iv) programme of research projects to be undertaken during
the forthcoming year and the financial allocation for such
programme.

If the Commissioner of Income-tax or the Director of Income-
tax is satisfied that the research association,-

(a) is not maintaining books of account, or
(b) has failed to furnish its audit report, or

(c) has not furnished its statement of the sums received and
the sums applied for scientific research or research in

89
