9.3 Sub-clause (iliac) of Section 10(23C) takes away from the
ambit of taxation the income of any hospital or other such
institution for the reception and treatment of persons suffering
from illness or mental defectiveness, or for reception and treatment
of persons during convalescence, or of persons requiring medical
attention or rehabilitation, provided that the hospital or the institution
exists solely for philanthropic purposes are not for profit and it is
wholly or substantially financed by the government. Clause (iiiae)
contains parallel provisions exempting the income of any hospital
or other such institution even where it is not financed wholly or
substantially by the government, provided its aggregate annual
receipts do not exceed the prescribed limit (currently, the limit is
Rupees one crore).

9.4 Clauses (iv), (v), (vi) and (via) of Section 10(23C) deal with
exemption of income of various kinds of religious or charitable funds/
trusts/institutions etc. which are “approved by the prescribed
authority” under the respective sub-clauses. Of these, Sub-clause
(iv) deals with exemption of income of any fund or institution
established for charitable purposes which may be approved by the
prescribed authority taking into account the objects of the fund or
institution or its importance throughout India or throughout any
state(s) of India. In order to be eligible for exemption, such trust or
institution should not be involved in any trade, commerce or business
activity or rendering of any service in relation to such activity.
Sub-clause (v) deals with exemption of income of any trust or
institution wholly for public religious purposes or public religious
and charitable purposes, which may be approved by the prescribed
authority taking into account the manner in which its affairs are
administered and supervised so as to ensure that the income is
applied for its objects. The restriction on trade, commerce or
business activity or rendering of any service in relation to it which
applies to Sub-Section (iv) also applies to this Sub-Section.

Rule 2BC(2) of I-T Rules.

30

Sub-clause (vi) deals with exemption of income of any university
or educational institution other than those mentioned in Sub-clauses
(iliab) and (iiiad) [see Para-9.2 above] which exists solely for
educational purposes and not for purposes of profit, which may be
approved by the prescribed authority. And finally, Sub-clause (via)
deals with exemption of income of any hospital or other institution
engaged in reception and treatment of persons suffering from illness
or mental defectiveness or during convalescence or requiring
medical attention or rehabilitation, other than those mentioned in
Sub-clauses (iiiac) and (iiiae) [see Para-9.3 above] which may be
approved by the prescribed authority. The “prescribed authority”
for the purposes of all these sub-clauses is now the Chief
Commissioner or the Director General of Income Tax*‘. The fund,
trust, institution or other entity seeking exemption under each of
the above sub-clauses [i.e., Sub-clauses (iv), (v), (vi), and (via)], is
required to make an application in the prescribed forms, namely,
Form No.56 and 56D [see Annexure-VII & VIII] to the CCIT or
DGIT concerned for grant or continuation of exemption. Such
application is required to be made before 30" September of the
relevant Assessment Year from which exemption is being sought.

9.5 The prescribed authority is empowered to call for the requisite
documents, audited annual accounts and other relevant information
as it considers necessary and is also empowered to make necessary
enquiries to satisfy itself about the genuineness of the activities of
the fund/trust/institution etc. within 12 months from the end of the
month in which such application was received. Prescribed authority
has to either grant the approval sought or has to pass an order
rejecting the application.

9.6 Conditions specified under Sub-Sections 11(1), 11(2) and 11(3)
regarding application of income, accumulation of income and its

Rules 2C and 2CA of I-T Rules. Also see Notification No.195/2007, dated 30-5-
2007 Notification No. So 1666 (E) dated 16.07.2010.[Annexure-XHI] for list
CCsIT/DGsIT notifed as “prescribed authority”.

31
