or statistical research activity carried on by the
Association.

List of research facilities or assets owned by the Association:
G) Plant and machinery;

(i) Land and building along with cost of acquisition;

(ii) Any other research facility/asset with cost of acquisition.
Research subjects and projects undertaken by the Association:

G) Research projects completed by the association during
the last three years, if any;

(ii) Research projects, which have been taken up during the
year and research projects which are underway from
the past years;

(iii) Research papers published in any eminent national or
International Research Journal.

Other details of scientific research or research in social science
or statistical research :

G) Newproducts, processes, methods, techniques developed;

(i) Improvements in the existing products, processes,
methods, techniques;

(ii) Products of import substitution;
(iv) Patents filed, obtained, if any, and if so, in whose name?

(v) Whether products, processes, methods and techniques
mentioned at (i) above have been commercialized or
implemented and if so, by whom?

(vi) New theories/models developed;

(vii) New hypothesis which has been widely accepted;

80

11.

(viii) Any copyright applied for/obtained;
(ix) Earnings from patents or registered trademarks, if any.

Enclose details of seminars, conferences, workshops and
training courses, etc., conducted by the Association during
the last three years and a brief note regarding the relevance
of such exchanges to the research area or activity carried on
by the Association.

Programmes contemplated for research in future and financial
projections to meet the likely expenditure on such programmes.
(i) Sources of income of the Association (for the last three

years);

(ii) Indicate assessment particulars:
(PAN, Ward/Circle, if assessed to tax)
(ili) When was the last return of income furnished?

Amounts received by the research association and actually
applied for research by it during the last three years:

Year | Amounts received

Amounts actually utilized
for research out of the
amounts at column (2)

(1) (2) Q)
Donation | Grant Total
12. Attach a list of donors giving their names, complete postal

addresses and the amounts paid by each of them to the
association during the last three years. (Mention PAN of donors
paying the sums in excess of fifty thousand rupees)

Enclose the copy of audited annual accounts of the association

81
