Q. 9
Ans.

@

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

(v)

Q.10

Ans.

Q.11

Ans.

Q.12

Ans.

4. Such order to be passed within six months from the end
of the month in which the application was received.

When is registration ordinarily refused by the CIT?
The CIT will ordinarily refuse registration if,

The trust is not a public charitable/religious trust;

The objects of the trust are not charitable;

Some objects exist for the benefit of the settler or trustees
or their relatives;

A provision exists for transfer of any part of the income or
the assets of the trust to any private individual or body;

The trust is created for the benefit of any specific religious
community or caste or individual and not for the public at
large.

Upon registration, from which Assessment Year does
an assessee become eligible for exemption under
Sections 11 and 12?

Upon registration exemption under Sections 11 and 12 are

available from the Assessment Year immediately after the
financial year in which the application was made.

Who is competent to Audit the accounts of the trust
for the purpose of Section 12A?

Please see Chapter-4 (Para 4.6). A Chartered Accountant
or a person entitled to be appointed as an auditor of companies
is authorized to carry out the requisite audit.

What are “anonymous donations”? To what extent are
they exempt in the hands of a charitable or religious
trust or institution?

“Anonymous donation” has been defined as a voluntary

46

contribution where the trust or institution receiving such
contribution does not maintain record of identity indicating
the name and address and other requisite particulars of the
person making such contribution. As regards the tax
treatment of such donations, the legal position as it stands
after the recent amendments may please be seen in Chapter
5 (Para-5.4).

Q.13 What are “corpus donations”? Are they taxable in

Ans.

the hands of a charitable or religious trust or
institution?

Income in the form of voluntary contributions made with a
specific direction from the donor that they shall form part of
the corpus of the trust or institution, are generally referred
to as “corpus donations”. Such donations are fully exempt
from tax under Section 11(1)(d) of the Act.

Q.14 What is the rate of taxation applicable to the taxable

Ans.

income if any, of a charitable or religious trust or
organization?

Income derived from property held under trust wholly for
charitable or religious purposes, to the extent it is not exempt
under Sections 11 and 12 is liable to tax at normal rates
applicable to an Association of Persons (AOP) except when
the same is in the nature of anonymous donations which will
be dealt with as mentioned in the answer to FAQ No. 12
above. Further, in cases where exemption under Section 11
is forfeited by a trust or institution on account of a default
under Section 13(1)(c) or 13(1)(d) (i-e., where the trust or
institution either directly or indirectly benefits its author,
founder or any other person mentioned under Section 13(3),
or because the funds of the trust or institution were invested
otherwise than in the specified modes), income of such trust
or institution will be taxable at the rate (including surcharge)
applicable to the highest slab of income for the assessment

47
