ANNEXURE-VHI
FORM NO. 56D
[See rule 2CA]

Application for grant of exemption or continuance thereof

under section 10(23C)(vi) and (via) for the year

Name and address of registered office of the University or
other educational institution or the hospital or other medical
institution referred to in sub-clause (vi) or sub-clause (via) of
clause (23C) of section 10.

Legal status, whether trust, registered society/others. Please
enclose a copy of the certificate of registration/relevant
document evidencing legal status.

Objects of the university or other educational institution
or hospital or other medical institution referred to in serial
number 1.

Names and addresses of the trustees/office bearers

Geographic area over which the activities of the university or
other educational institution or hospital or other medical
institution referred to in serial number | are performed.
[Enclose details of work done in different places with
addresses of branch offices and names and addresses of
office bearers in these places].

Enclose copies of memorandum of association, articles of
association, trust deed, rules/regulations of the university or
other educational institution or hospital or other medical
institution referred to in serial number 1.

Enclose copies of audited accounts and balance sheets for
the last three years along with a note on the examination of
accounts and on the activities as reflected in the accounts

74

10.

11.

12.

and in the annual reports with special reference to the
appropriation of income towards objects of the university or
other educational institution or hospital or other medical
institution referred to in serial number 1.

Has the university or other educational institution or hospital
or other medical institution referred to in serial number 1
received any donations from a foreign country to which
provisions of Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 1976,
applies? Give details.

Give assessment particulars :-

G@)  Ward/Circle of jurisdiction and the last income returned
and assessed with permanent account number/GIR
number.

(ii) Is the income exempt under section 11?

(ii) Is any recovery of tax, etc., outstanding against the
university or other educational institution or hospital or
other medical institution referred to in serial number 1?

(iv) Whether any penalties have been initiated/levied?

Total income including voluntary contributions, if any, of the
university or other educational institution or hospital or other
medical institution referred to in serial number 1| for the previous
year relevant to the assessment year for or from which the
exemption is sought.

Amount of income referred to above that has been or deemed
to have been utilized wholly and exclusively for the objects of
the university or other educational institution or hospital or
other medical institution referred to in serial number 1 (income
deemed to have been utilized shall have the meaning assigned
to in sub-sections (1) and (1A) of section 11).

Amount accumulated for the objects mentioned in column 3
above.

75
