trust or institution differs from the concept of income in the case of
other assessees under the income tax law in one very significant
respect. Under Section 2(24)(iia) of the Act, voluntary contributions
(donations) received by these entities from their donors are to be
taken as their income. This provision applies equally to a trust or
institution which was created or established only partly for religious
or charitable purposes. The Act deals with such voluntary
contributions which are deemed to be the income of the trust or
institutions under clause (iia) of Section 2(24) primarily in three
ways. Firstly, anonymous contributions (if any) out of these are
dealt with in the manner provided under Section 13(7) and 115BBC
as described in the Para-5.4 below. Secondly, voluntary contributions
which are in the nature of corpus donations are eligible for
unconditional exemption (i.e., rules regarding the extent of
application or accumulation of income do not apply to corpus
donations) under Section 11(1)(d). Thirdly, voluntary contributions
which are neither anonymous nor corpus donations are eligible for
exemption under the other provisions of Section 11, subject to
fulfilment of conditions specified therein.

FILING OF RETURN

5.3 Acharitable or religious trust or institution is mandatorily required
to file a return of income under Section 139(4A) if its income
without giving effect to the provisions of Sections 11 and 12
exceeds the maximum amount not chargeable to income-tax. In
other words, such a trust or institution must file a return of income
if it has taxable income for the year before claiming exemption
under Sections 11 and 12. The report of the auditor in Form 10B
mentioned in Para-4.6 has to be filed along with the return.

ANONYMOUS DONATIONS

5.4 A significant legal change has been brought about by Finance
Act, 2006 with effect from 01.04.2007 by inserting a new provision
(Section 115BBC) whereby anonymous donations will not enjoy
exemption but would be chargeable to tax at the rate of 30 per cent
from Assessment Year 2007-08 onwards. This provision, as it stands

14

after further amendment by Finance Act, 2009 lays down that from
Assessment Year 2010-11 onwards, tax treatment of anonymous
donations (i.e., donations in respect of which the assessee
fund/trust/institution etc. does not maintain records of
identity indicating the name and address, or other particulars
of the donor as are prescribed under the I-T Act) would be
as follows:

L Anonymous donations received by wholly religious
institutions shall remain exempt from tax.

i. Inthe case of partly religious and partly charitable institutions,
anonymous donations to medical or educational institutions
run by them will be taxable at 30 percent if the same exceed 5
per cent of total donations received by such trust/institution
or Rs. 1 lakh, whichever is more. Donations to partly religious
and partly charitable institutions which do not run such
medical or educational institutions shall remain exempt from
taxation.

ii. In the case of wholly charitable institutions, anonymous
donations will be taxable at 30 percent ifsuch donations exceed
5 per cent of total donations received by such trust or
institution or Rs. 1 lakh, whichever is more.

EXEMPTION OF INCOME

5.5 Under Section 11, exemption of income has been provided for
in respect of the following:

(i) Income “applied_to” charitable/religious purposes in India: Section
11(1) (a) permits exemption of income derived from property held under
trust wholly ' for charitable or religious purposes to the extent it is actually
applied to such purposes during the financial year. Courts have held that

184 trust which was created prior to 01.04.1962 is entitled to claim exemption in
respect of its income from property held only partly for charitable or religious
purposes also, subject to the conditions mentioned in Section 11(1)(b).

15
