* The Finance Act 2014 has made some further
amendments by stating that where Eligible trusts or
institutions which have been granted registration under
section 12AA of the act will be eligible for benefits under
sections 11 and 12 of the Act even for any earlier year
which is pending assessment on the date of such
registration. Further, no reopening of an assessment
permitted, merely if such trust or institution has not
obtained registration for the earlier assessment year.
These benefits will not apply in a case where the
registration was either refused or cancelled. Eligible
educational institutions, hospitals and other institutions
under Section 10 (23C) of the Act to be considered as
substantially financed by the government only if the
government grant to the institution exceeds such
percentage (to be prescribed) of the total receipts
(including voluntary contributions) during the previous
year.

* Commissioner of Income-tax has been empowered to
cancel registration granted to trusts or institutions deriving
income from property held under trust under specified
circumstances, such as investing in prohibited modes,
applying income for benefit of trustees, etc.

4.2 Section 12AA of the Income Tax Act and Rule 17A of the
Income Tax Rules prescribe the procedure for registration of a
trust where an application for registration under Section 12A has
been received by the Commissioner or Director. The application
for registration has to be made in Form No. 10A (Annexure-I). It
should be accompanied by the following documents: -

@ Copy of the instrument by way of which the trust or
institution etc. is created;

(i) | Ifit has been in existence in the years prior to the year in

10

which application is made, accounts of the prior years (not
exceeding three years).

4.3 On receipt of the application, the CIT/DIT (E) has to pass an
order either registering the trust or institution or rejecting the
application. The registration may be rejected on the ground that
the trust or its activities are not genuine. Under sub-Section (2) of
Section 12A such an order registering or refusing registration has
to be passed within a period of six months from the end of the
month in which the application is made.

4.4 The conditions required for registration have been stated briefly
and in simple language. It mandates that the Commissioner or
Director should satisfy himself about:-

G) _ the objects of the trust or institution, and

(ii) the genuineness of its activities.

4.5 It follows that the Commissioner or Director will enquire
whether the object(s) of the trust or institution constitute religious
or charitable purpose(s) within the meaning of Section 2(15).

4.6 Section 12A(b) prescribes another important condition for
claiming exemption under Sections 11 and 12. It requires a trust or
an institution whose income for the previous year before claiming
the deduction contemplated under Sections 11 and 12 falls within
the tax bracket (i.e., its income exceeds the maximum amount which
is not chargeable to income-tax without giving effect to the
provisions of Section 11 and Section 12), to get its accounts
audited by an Accountant. The Accountant’s report in Form No. 10B
(Annexure-II) has to be filed along with the return of income. A
Chartered Accountant or other person mentioned in the Explanation
to Section 288(2) of the Act is authorised to carry out such an
audit.

4.7 The following points should ordinarily be kept in mind at the
time of making an application for registration:-

ll
