Ans.

Ans.

receipts from such business activity do not exceed Rs. 10
lakhs, which stands increased to Rs.25 lakhs w.e.f.
01.04.2012).

For a detailed discussion regarding the expressions “charitable
purpose”, “relief of the poor”, “education”, “medical relief”,
and “advancement of any other object of general public

utility”, please see Chapter-3.

How is “income” defined in case of a charitable trust
or institution?

“Income” in the case of a charitable trust or institution has
to be understood in the broadest of terms. As in the case of
any other assessee, it will include income falling under
different heads of income, including profits and gains of
business or profession, capital gains, income from house
property and income from other sources (such as dividends,
interest on securities, etc.). Additionally, in the case of a
charitable trust or institution, donations received (“voluntary
contributions”), which otherwise do not possess the
character of “income”, are also to be included in income.
All these amounts will, in the first instance, be included in
the income of the charitable trust or institution, and, thereafter,
exemption can be claimed subject to fulfillment of prescribed
conditions. For a detailed discussion, please see Chapter-5
(Para 5.2) of the booklet.

What conditions are required to be fulfilled by a
charitable or religious trust seeking exemption under
Section 11?

To ensure that only organizations engaged in bona fide
charitable or religious activities are allowed to claim exemption
from tax, the law has prescribed a number of legal and
procedural requirements. Taxpayers would be well-advised
to go through the relevant provisions, particularly, Sections

4a

Dos
@)

(ui)

(iit)
(iy)

(vy)

(vi)

(vii)

11, 12, 12A, 13, 115BBC and 139(4A) of the Income Tax
Act, and Rules 17, 17A, 17B and 17C of the Income Tax
Rules. For the sake of brevity and easy reference, however,
the DOs & DON’Ts for the claim of exemption by a
charitable or religious trust under Section 11 are summarized
below:-

The trust must be a public charitable or public religious trust
and not a private trust.

Income claimed to be exempt must be derived from property
held under trust.

The trust must be wholly for charitable or religious purposes.

If the trust or institution has taxable income for the year
before claiming exemption under Sections 11 and 12, its
accounts must be audited by a Chartered Accountant (or
other person competent to audit accounts under Income Tax
Act) and audit report in the prescribed Form must be filed
with the return of income.

The trust must be registered by Commissioner/Director of
Income Tax under Section 12AA.

Activities of the trust must be carried out in India [specified
exception exists — see Chapter-5, Para - 5.5(iii)]

85 per cent or more of the income for the year must be
applied to (i.e., put to use) for charitable or religious purposes,
and the balance (i.e., 15 per cent or less) must be accumulated
or set apart for future application to charitable or religious
purposes,

or

If 85 per cent of the income is not applied to charitable or
religious purposes during the year, the same must be

B
