7. Amount and periodicity of the award

8. Method of selection of the person(s)
to be awarded

9. Constitution of the Jury/ Selection Committee
including interalia name, address & qualification
of its members

10. Name, address and qualification of the persons
given awards in the last five years

11. Copies of audited accounts since inception
or last three years whichever is less

12. Any other information in support of approval
of the award

8.2 While instituting awards, the institution must keep following
points in mind for the purpose of notification:-

G) Whether the award is in public interest;

(ii) Whether the object clauses, and rules and regulations of
the institution permit grant of the award;

(ii) Whether the grant of award is in furtherance of aims
and objects of the institution;

(iv) Whether the objects of the institution are charitable in
nature;

(v) Whether selection criteria are fair and reasonable;

(vi) Whether permission of the Board has been obtained
under Proviso to Section 11(1)(c) in case the expenditure
on award is to be incurred outside India.

28

CHAPTER-9

APPROVAL UNDER SECTION 10(23C)

9.1 Section 10(23C) consists of twelve sub-clauses. Sub-clauses
(i), (ii), (aii) and (iiia) exempt from tax the income of Prime
Minister’s National Relief Fund, Prime Minister’s Fund for
Promotion of Folk Art, Prime Minister’s Aid to Students’
Fund and National Foundation for Communal Harmony
respectively. These do not require any elaboration.

9.2 Sub-clause (iiiab) takes out of the purview of taxation income
of any university or other educational institution existing solely
for educational purposes and not for profit, which is wholly or
substantially financed by the government. Sub-clause (iiiad) contains
parallel provisions exempting the income of a university even where
it is not wholly or substantially financed by the government, provided
its aggregate annual receipts do not exceed a prescribed limit
(currently the limit is Rupees one crore).

See Rule 2BC(1) of I-T Rules.

29
