13.

G) Details of modes in which the funds of the university or
other educational institution or hospital or other medical
institution referred to in serial number 1 are invested or
deposited showing the nature, value and income from
the investment.

(ii) Details of funds not invested in the modes specified in
section 11(5):

SL

Name and | In the case of | Nominated | Income from
address of | a company, value of the

the number and the investment
concern class of invesment
shares held

14.

15.

16.

17.

G) __ Istheuniversity or other educational institution or hospital
or other medical institution referred to in serial number 1
carrying on any business (give details)?

(ii) Is the business incidental to the attainment of its objects?

Details of nature, quantity and value of contributions (other
than cash) and the manner in which such contributions have
been utilized.

Details of shares, securities or other property purchased by
or on behalf of the university or other educational institution
or hospital or other medical institution referred to in serial
number 1 from any interested person as specified in sub-
section (2) of section 13.

Whether any part of the income or any property of the
university or other educational institution or hospital or other
medical institution referred to in serial number | was used or
applied, in a manner which results directly or indirectly in

76

18.

19.

conferring any benefit, amenity or perquisite (whether
converted into money or not), on any interested person as
specified in sub-section (3) of section 13? If so, details thereof.

Amount deemed to be income of the university or other
educational institution or hospital or other medical institution
referred to in serial number 1 if sub-section (3) of section 11
is made applicable.

The income that would have been assessable if the university
or other educational institution or hospital or other medical
institution referred to in serial number 1 had not enjoyed the
benefit of section 10(23C)(vi) or (via).

Certified that the above information is true to the best of my
knowledge and belief.

Place Signature
Date Designation
Full Address
Notes
1. The application form should be sent to the Chief Commissioner

or Director General whom the Central Board of Direct Taxes
may authorise to act as prescribed authority for the purposes
of sub-clause (vi) or sub-clause (via) of clause (23C) of section
10 through the Commissioner of Income-tax or Director of
Income-tax (Exemptions) having jurisdiction over the university
or other educational institution or hospital or other medical
institution referred to in serial number 1 of this Form. Four
copies of the application form along with the enclosures should
be sent.

Copies of the following documents should be annexed :-

(i) Deed of trust/memorandum and articles of association/
other documents evidencing legal status of the enterprise;

77
