Place __
Date_

Details regarding the nature, quantity and value of contributions
(other than cash and the manner in which such contribution
have been utilised).

Details of shares, security or other property purchased by or

on behalf of the association from:

(i) the founder of the association;

(ii) any person who has made a contribution exceeding rupees
one lakh to the association;

(ii) any member ofa Hindu undivided family where the Hindu
undivided family is a founder;

(iv) the manager (by whatever name called) of the
association;

(v) a relative of the founder, member or the manager;

(vi) any concern in which any of the persons referred to in

sub-items (i) to (v) have a substantial interest.
Whether any part of the income or any property of the
association was used or applied, in a manner which results
directly or indirectly in conferring any benefit, amenity or
perquisite (whether converted into money or not) on any
interested person. If so, the details thereof.

Amount deemed to be income of the association by virtue of
section 11(3), as applicable by the first proviso to section
10(21).

Certified that the above information is true to the best of my
knowledge and belief.

Signature
Designation
Full Address

ANNEXURE-X
FORM NO. 3 CF-I
[See rules 5C and 5E]

Application form for approval under clause (ii) or clause
(iii) of sub-section (1) of section 35 of the Income-tax Act,

1961 in the case of a University, College or other
Institution

G) Name and address of the registered office of the
applicant.

(i) Enclose a copy of the Trust Deed/Deed of Registration/
Memorandum and Articles of Association, and if the
university, college or other institution was approved earlier,
furnish notification number and date of the latest
notification. [Please enclose a copy]

(ii) If approval was withdrawn in the past, mention reasons
on account of which the approval was withdrawn.
[Enclose a copy of the Order/Orders withdrawing
approval/approvals]

(iv) Date from which approval has been sought for.

Legal status of the Applicant: Whether Registered Society or
Company or others. (Enclose a copy of certificate of
registration/incorporation)

(i) Address(es) of the research laboratory/research facility
of the applicant.

(ii) Year of establishment.

(iii) Name and address of the Officer in-charge of the
Laboratory/research facility.

(iv) Total number of employees engaged in scientific, social
or statistical research.

85
