particular country or state. It is sufficient if the intention to benefit
a section of the public, as distinguished from a specified individual,
is present. However, the section of the community sought to be
benefited must be sufficiently defined and identifiable by some
common quality of a public or impersonal nature.'?

3.13 An institution set up with the object of promoting trade or
commerce is a charitable institution as it promotes common good
through enhancement of business.'* However, an institution which
merely regulates or enhances the business of its members, is not a
charitable institution. Thus, where the proprietors of hotels formed
an association for obtaining articles on permit for supplying them to
members and protecting their business interest, the association was
held not to be a charitable one for the purpose of the Act!>.

"Sole Trustee, Lok Shikshana Trust [1975] 101 ITR 234 (SC).

"Bihar Institute of Mining and Mine Surveying [1994] 208 ITR 608 (Pat.)
Ahmedabad Rana Caste Association [1971] 82 ITR 704 (SC).

“Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry [1981] 130 ITR
186(SC); Bar Council of Maharashtra [1981] 130 ITR 28 (SC).

Madras Hotels Association [1978] 111 ITR 241 (Mad.)

CHAPTER-4

REGISTRATION OF CHARITABLE
TRUSTS" & INSTITUTIONS

4.1 One of the key preconditions for charitable trusts and institutions
seeking to claim exemption under Sections 11 and 12 of the Income
Tax Act is registration under the Act. Section 12A enacts that the
provisions of Section 11 and Section 12 which provide for exemption
of income to such trusts and institutions, will not be applicable unless
such trust or institution has made an application in the prescribed
form'’ for registration to the Commissioner or Director, and it has
been registered by the Commissioner or Director. Under the
amended provisions of this Section which have come into effect
from 01.06.2007, the earlier requirement of filing such an application
within one year of creation of the trust (or establishment of the
institution) has been removed. Similarly, the power of the
Commissioner or Director to condone the delay in filing such
application and to grant the benefit of exemption retrospectively
from the date of creation of trust or establishment of the institution
has also been done away with. Under the amended provisions,
where an application is filed on or after the 1st day of June, 2007,
exemption under Sections 11 and 12 shall be available only on a
prospective basis from the assessment year which immediately
follows the financial year in which the application is made.

'6In law, a ‘trust’ signifies an obligation attached to the ownership of property,
and arising out of the confidence reposed by the author of the trust in the trustees.
In the I-T Act, however, the word has been used in a wider sense to include any
other legal obligation, even if the legal requirements for creation of a trust are
not strictly met.

Form No.10A (See Annexure-l)
