of the trust as the purpose of accumulation would not satisfy the
requirements of Section 11(2)*’. Stated briefly, the amount sought to be
accumulated under Section 11(2) shall be excluded from taxable income
provided the following conditions are satisfied:-

@ — Anotice is given in Form No.10 (Annexure-IID) to the assessing
officer setting out the amount and purpose for which it is
accumulated, and

(i) The money so accumulated or set apart is invested in
the forms or modes mentioned in Section 11(5).

As per Rule 17, the notice has to be given on or before the
due date of filing the return under Section 139(1). However,
subject to certain conditions, the Board has authorized the
Commissioner or Director to extend the aforesaid time limit if
good and sufficient reason is shown for the inability to give
the notice in time**. The Circular stipulates satisfaction of
five conditions before the time limit is extended. These are as
under:-

A. The genuineness of the trust is not in doubt;

B. The failure to give notice to the Assessing Officer and
invest the surplus in time was only due to over-sight;

C. The trustees or settler have not benefited by such failure
directly or indirectly;

D. Thetrust agrees to invest the surplus before the extension
of time is granted;

E. The accumulation was necessary for carrying out the
object of the trust.

The issue of time limit for giving notice was considered by
Hon. Supreme Court in the case of Nagpur Hotel Owners

3Singhania Charitable Trust [1993] 199 ITR 819 (Cal).
*Circular No. 273 dated 03.06.1980.

18

Association’>. It was held that such a notice can be given at any
time before the assessment is made. Thus, the time limit under
Rule-17 is directory and not mandatory in nature. However, a notice
given after completion of assessment will not satisfy the requirement
of Section 11(2), as in such a case all particulars relevant for
computation of income will not be available before the Assessing
Officer for making the assessment.

Income accumulated or set apart under Section 11(2) for
attainment of specific purposes has to be used for the specified
purposes within specified period. An infringement of the conditions
of accumulation can occur on any or all of the following grounds:-

G) It is applied to purposes other than charitable or religious
purposes,

(ii) It ceases to remain invested in the manner specified
under Section 11(5),

(ii) It is not applied for the purposes for which it was
accumulated, or

(iv) It is credited or paid to any other charitable or religious
trust or institution or other such institution mentioned under
Section 11(3)(d).

Upon the occurrence of any of the aforesaid events, the amount
will be taken as the income of the previous year in which such
event takes place. It may happen that an assessee is unable to
apply accumulated income for the purposes for which it was
accumulated because of reasons beyond his control. In such a
situation, Section 11(3A) allows the assessee to make an application
to the assessing officer requesting for change of purpose(s) for
application of income. Upon such application, the Assessing Officer
may allow the change if the substituted purposes are in conformity
with the objects of the charitable trust or institution. However,

25/2001] 247 ITR 201 (SC).

19
