transfer of income to another charitable trust will not be allowed
under this provision.

(vi) Business Income: Section 11(4) states that a business undertaking
can be held as property under trust. Therefore, a legitimate claim can be
made that the income of such business may not be included in the total
income of the person receiving such income. In such a case, the assessing
officer is required to assess the income of such business under the normal
provisions ofthe Act. If there is a difference between income so determined
and the income shown in the accounts, such difference shall not be
regarded as having been applied to religious or charitable purpose, but
shall be deemed to have been applied to purposes other than charitable/
religious purposes. The point to be noted is that the income of the
business has to be calculated under the normal assessment related
provisions of the Act and not as per Chapter III which otherwise applies
to income of charitable trusts and institutions.

Section 11(4A) deals with income ofa trust or institution by way of a
business which is incidental to attainment of its objects. The income of
such a business will be entitled to exemption under Section 11 if separate
books of account are maintained, otherwise, the income will not be
entitled to benefit of exemption under Sections 11 and 12.

The above legal position, however, stands altered from
Assessment Year 2009-10 onwards in view of the amendment to
the Act brought about by the Finance Act, 2008 with effect from
01.04.2009. The legal position with effect from 1.4.2009 is
discussed in Para-3.2. After this amendment, Section 11(4A) will
have no practical application in so far as “advancement of any
other activity of general public utility” is concerned. However,
there is no change in the legal position in respect of trusts for other
charitable purposes, including “relief of the poor”, “education” and
“medical relief.”

MODES OF INVESTMENT

5.6 Section 11(5) mentions a number of modes of investment in
which income accumulated and set apart under Section 11(2) must

20

be kept. For the sake of easy reference, these have been
reproduced in Annexure-IV.

¢ Finance Act 2014 has amended section 11 of the Income
Tax Act.

* In computing income of the charitable trusts/institutions,
deduction or allowance for depreciation in respect of an
asset, acquisition of which has been claimed as application
of income in any year, is to be excluded.

* Funds, institutions, universities, etc approved/registered under
Section 10(23C) and 12AA of the Act cannot claim
exemption under any other provision of Section 10 of the
Act, except for agricultural income or under Section 10(23C)
of the Act.

RATE OF TAX

5.7 Income derived from property held under trust wholly for
charitable or religious purpose (including voluntary contributions
received from donors), to the extent it is not exempt under Sections
11 and 12, is liable to tax at the normal rates applicable to an
Association of Persons (AOP), except for anonymous donations
discussed in Para-5.4 above. Where, however, there is any default
of the nature specified under Section 13(1)(c)*° or 13(1)(d)’,
Section 164 lays down that its income would be liable to tax at the
maximum marginal rate, i.e., the rate of income-tax (including
surcharge) applicable to the highest slab of income for the relevant
assessment year.

°6 A default of this nature occurs where income or property of the trust or institution
either directly or indirectly benefits the author, founder or other such person
specified under Section 13(3). Also see Sub-para (iii) & (iv) of Para-6.1 (Chapter-
6) and Annexure-V.

74 default of this nature occurs where funds of the trust or institution are invested

or deposited otherwise than in the manner specified under Section 11(5). Also see
Sub-para (v) of para-6.1 (Chapter-6) and Annexure-IV.

21
