CHAPTER-11

FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
(FAQs)

Q.1 Are NGOs and other charitable and non-profit

organizations entitled to claim tax exemption under
income tax law in India? Are donors who contribute to
such organizations also entitled to any tax deduction?

Ans. Yes, such exemption is available to, (i) public charitable

trusts or other legal obligations, (ii) university or other
educational institutions, (ii) hospital or other institutions for
treatment of persons, (iv) research associations, (v) a
company formed under Section 25 of the Companies Act.
Grant of exemption in each case is, however, subject to
fulfilment of a set of specified conditions.

Donors who contribute to such organizations can also claim
tax deduction to the extent of a specified proportion of their
contribution (50 per cent in most cases).

Q.2 What is the justification for such exemption?

Ans. NGOs and other voluntary and non-profit organizations

supplement governmental efforts in promoting economic and
social development and thus serve as partners in
advancement of welfare activities. Genuine voluntary
organizations have the advantage of local presence, possess
local knowledge, and also bring in additional resources which
help meet social and economic goals of the government.
The revenue foregone by way of tax exemption is, therefore,

40

Q.3

Ans.

Q.4

Ans.

Q.5

Ans.

employed effectively for achieving the nation’s developmental
goals.

Who are the authorities responsible for grant of such
exemption?

Please refer to Chapter-2 for a list of authorities who play a
role in grant of exemptions under the income tax law. For
each type of exemption, the law specifies the authority
competent to grant the necessary approval.

What is a “trust”?

Under general law, a ‘trust’ is defined as an obligation
attached to the ownership of property, and arising out of the
confidence reposed by the author of the trust in the trustees.
In the I-T Act, however, the word has been used in a wider
sense to include any other legal obligation, even where the
legal requirements for creation of a trust are not strictly met.

Section 11 exempts income from property held for
“charitable purposes”. What is meant by “charitable
purpose”?

“Charitable purpose” under Income Tax law as it now stands
includes, (a) relief of the poor (b) education, (c) medical
relief, (d) preservation of the environment (including
watersheds, forests and wildlife), (e) preservation of
monuments or places or objects of artistic or historic interest,
and (f) advancement of any other object of general public
utility (as distinguished from benefit of individuals or narrowly
defined interest groups).

From 01.04.2009 onwards, “advancement of any other object
of general public utility” does not include carrying on of
business activity of any kind, regardless of the manner in
which income earned from such business activity is intended
to be utilized (an exception, has been made in cases where

4l
