held as corpus since 01.06.1973, debentures acquired
before 01.03.1983, bonus shares issued on such corpus
assets etc.), it must invest or deposit its funds in
accordance with Section 11(5).

(iv) Business income, if any, shall not be exempt unless the
business is incidental to attainment of its objects and
separate books of account are maintained for such
business.

10.3. The guidelines, form and manner in which approval under
Section 35(1)(ii) or (ili) is to be obtained, have been specified in
Rule 5C. An application for approval under Section 35(1)(ii) or (iii)
by a research association has to be made in duplicate in Form No.
3CF-I [Annexure-IX] whereas in the case of a university, college
or other institution, it is to be made in Form No. 3CF-II [Annexure-
Xj]. The said application has to be made to the CIT/DIT(E) having
jurisdiction over the applicant, at any time during the financial year
immediately before the assessment year from which the approval
is sought. If the association claims exemption under Section 10(21)
of the Act, it has also to fill up the Annexure to Form No. 3CF-I.

10.4 If any defect is noticed in the application in Form No. 3CF-
I or 3CF-II or if any relevant document is not attached, the CIT/
DIT (E) will send a deficiency letter to the applicant within one
month from the date of receipt of the application form in his office.
The applicant is required to remove the deficiency within fifteen
days (extendable to thirty days). If the applicant fails to remove
the deficiency within a maximum of thirty days, the CIT/DIT (E)
will send his recommendation to the Member (IT), CBDT
for treating the application as invalid, upon which, the
Central Government may pass an order treating the application as
invalid.

36

10.5 Where the application form is complete in all respects, the
CIT/DIT (E) may make necessary inquiry regarding the
genuineness of the activity of the association/university/college/
institution and send his recommendation to the Member (IT) either
for grant of approval or for rejection of the application. He is required
to do so within three months from the end of the month in which
the application form was received in his office.

10.6 Before granting approval under Section 35(1)(ii) or (iii), the
Central Government may call for such documents or information
from the applicant as it may consider necessary and may also get
any inquiry made for verification of the genuineness of the activity
of the applicant. Where the Central Government is satisfied, it may
issue a notification under Section 35(1) to be published in the Official
Gazette granting approval to the association or university or college
or other institution. Otherwise, it may reject the application for
reasons to be recorded in writing.

10.7 The Central Government may withdraw the approval so
granted where it is satisfied that the research association/university/
college/other institution has ceased its activities or its activities are
not genuine or are not being carried out in accordance with all or
any of the conditions under Rule 5D or Rule SE [See Annexure-
XI & XII respectively].

10.8 The applicant is entitled to a reasonable opportunity of being
heard before an order treating the application as invalid or rejecting
the application or withdrawing the approval, is passed. A copy of
such order invalidating or rejecting the application or withdrawing
the approval has to be communicated to the applicant, the Assessing
Officer and the jurisdictional CIT/DIT (E).

10.9 As per the Proviso to Section 143(3), the Assessing Officer,
where he is of the view that a contravention of Section 10(21) has
taken place, is required to intimate the Central Government of the

37
