Arrears of Rent (Section 25B)

When the owner of a building receives arrears of rent from
such a property, the same shall be deemed to be the income from
house property of the year of receipt irrespective of whether or
not the assessee is the owner of the property in that year. 30%
of the receipt shall be allowed as deduction towards repairs,
collection charges etc. (prior to the A.Y. 2002-03, the rate of
deduction was 25%). No other deduction will be allowed.

Set off and carry forward of loss in cases of house
properties

This matter can be examined under two heads namely:
(A) Where the property has been let out

* In the matter of set off of and carry forward loss from let
out properties, two Sections are relevant. Sections 70 and
71 provide that loss from one house property can be set off
against the income from another house property. The
remaining loss, if any, will be set off against incomes
under any other heads like salary, business etc. In case
the loss does not get wiped out completely, the balance
will be carried forward.

* In regard to carried forward losses, Section 71B is to
apply. This Section provides that where the assessee incurs
any loss under the head “Income from house property” and
such loss is not fully adjusted under other heads of income
in the same assessment year, then the balance loss shall be
allowed to be carried forward and set off in subsequent
years (subject to a limit of 8 assessment years) against
income from house property.

Illustration I
(i) Asst. year 2014-15

‘A’ a salaried employee (salary Rs. 1,40,000/-) has two properties
which are let out. The loss from one _ property
*X’ is Rs. 20,000/-. The income from the other property “Y’
is Rs. 14,000/-. The loss from property ‘X’ can be set off
against income from property ‘Y’. There will still be loss of
Rs. 6000/- in respect of property ‘X’. This can be set off
against his salary income.

(ii) Asst. year (as at (i) above)

B’s sources of income/loss are as under:

Rs.
* | Interest income 10,000
* | Income from other sources 6,000

Net loss from residential House Property (-) 36,000

(consequent to payment of
interest on funds borrowed for the
construction of House after 31.03.1999)

Net loss 20,000

This loss of Rs.20,000 would be carried forward for being
set off in accordance with the provisions of Section 71B upto 8
years against income from house properties.

(B) Where the house is self occupied

In so far as income from self occupied property is
concerned, the same is to be taken as Nil (see next chapter). The
only deduction permissible against this Nil income is interest on
