hands of the donor, even if rental income is received by the
donee- S. Kartar Singh v. CIT (1969) 73 ITR 438 (Delhi). In
other words, for the purpose of section 22, the owner must be
that person who can exercise the rights of the owner, not on
behalf of the owner but in his own right-RB. Jodha Mal
Kuthiala v. CIT [1971] 82 ITR 570 (SC). However, there has
been some refinement in the concept of ownership after the
decision of the Surpeme Court in the case of CIT v. Podar
Cement (P) Ltd. (1997) 92 Taxman 541 (SC)/226 ITR 625
(SC). In this case, the Supreme Court has expressed the view
that under common law ‘owner’ means a person who has got
valid title generally conveyed to him after complying with the
requirements of law such as the Transfer of Property Act,
Registration Act etc. But in the context of Section 22 of the
Income tax Act, having regard to the ground realities and
further having regard to the object of the Income tax Act,
namely, “to tax the income”, ‘owner’ is a person who is
entitled to receive income from the property in his own right.
The requirement of registration of the sale deed in the context
of section 22 is not warranted. In view of this, where a
property is handed over to a purchaser to enjoy fruits of that
property by the builder, the purchaser is to be treated as
‘owner’ of that property even though no registered document
has been executed in his favour.

Ownership is relevant for the previous year

As tax is levied only on the income of previous year,
annual value of property, owned by a person during the
previous year, is taxable in the following assessment year,
even if the assessee is not owner of the property during the
assessment year.

Deemed ownership

In the following situations the ownership shall be deemed for
taxing income from house property in view of section 27 of the
Act:

(i) When house property is transferred to spouse (otherwise
than in connection with an agreement to live apart) or minor
child (not being a married daughter) without adequate
consideration (Section 27(i))

(ii) In the case of holder of an impartible estate (Section 27(ii))

(ii) A member of a cooperative society, company etc. to whom
a building or part thereof has been allotted or leased under
a house building scheme (Section 27(iii)). Thus, when a flat
is allotted by a cooperative society or a company to its
members/shareholders who enjoy the flat, technically the
co-operative society/company may be the owner. However,
in such situations the allottees are deemed to be owners and
it is the allottees who will be taxed under this head.

(iv) A person who is allowed to take or retain possession of any
building (or part therof) in part performance of a contract of
the nature referred to in section 53A of the Transfer of
Property Act, 1882, is deemed as the owner of that building
(or part thereof) [Sec. 27 (iiia)].

(v) A person who acquires any rights (excluding any rights by
way of a lease from month to month or for a period not
exceeding one year) in or with respect to any building (or
part thereof) by virtue of any such transaction as is referred
to in section 269UA(f) [i.e. if a person takes a house on
lease for a period of 12 months or more, is deemed as the
owner of that building or part thereof] [Sec. 27 (iiib)].
