CHAPTER IV

DEDUCTIONS UNDER SECTION 80C
IN RELATION TO INVESTMENT IN NEW
RESIDENTIAL HOUSE PROPERTY

Deduction under section 80C of the Income tax Act is
available for investment in house property subject to the
satisfaction of the conditions of that section in regard to
qualifying amounts in the following circumstances to the
individuals/Hindu undivided families.

Payments made towards the cost of purchase/construction
of new residential house property during the previous year are
eligible for deduction under section 80C. The following
payments qualify for deduction:-

a. any instalment or part payment of the amount due under
any self-financing or other scheme of any development
authority, housing board or other authority engaged in the
construction and sale of house property on ownership basis;
or

b. any instalment or part payment of the amount due to any
company or cooperative society of which the assessee is a
shareholder or member towards the cost of the house property
allotted to him (it is not applicable if the assessee is not a
shareholder or member of the company/co-operative society
which provided house to the assessee); or

20

c. repayment of the amount borrowed by the assessee from-
i. the Central Government or any State Government, or
ii. any bank, including a cooperative bank, or
ii. the Life Insurance Corporation of India, or
iv. the National Housing Bank, or

v. any public company formed and registered in India with
the main object of carrying on the business of providing
long term finance for construction or purchase of
houses in India for residential purposes which is eligible
for deduction under section 36(1) (viii), or

vi. any company in which the public are substantially
interest or any cooperative society, where such company
or cooperative society is engaged in the business of
financing the construction of houses, or

vii. the assessee’s employer where such employer is an
authority or a board or a corporation or any other body
established or constituted under a Central or State Act,
or

viii. the assessee’s employer where such employer is a
public company or public sector company, or a university
established by law or a college affiliated to such
university or a local authority or a co-operative society;

d. stamp duty, registration fee and other expenses for the
purpose of transfer of such house property to the assessee.

The following payments are not qualified for the purpose of
section 80C :

a. the admission fee, cost of the share and initial deposit
which a shareholder of a company or a member of a

21
