shall be the Annual Value. For example, in case of a house,
whose municipal valuation is Rs. 24,000/- and actual rent
received is Rs. 36,000/- the annual lettable value will be taken at
Rs.36,000/-. If the actual rent received is Rs. 18,000/- and
municipal valuation is Rs.24,000/-, the annual value would be
Rs. 24,000/- for the purpose of the Income-tax Act. Here,
if the property was vacant for six months and the rent
received is Rs. 18,000/- for six months the Annual Value shall
be Rs. 18,000/-.

Where the property is subject to Rent Control Act, its
annual value under section 23(1) cannot exceed the standard
rent (fixed or determined) under the Rent Control Act unless
it is actually let out for a higher amount. Such a view has been
expressed by the Supreme Court in the cases of Dewan Daulat
Rai Kapoor v. NDMC (1980) 122 ITR 700 (SC); Amolak
Ram Khosla v. CIT (1981) 131 ITR 589 (SC) & Mrs. Shiela
Kaushik v. CIT (1981) 131 ITR 435 (SC).

Determination of Annual Value of Self-occupied property

In case of one self-occupied house property which has
not been actually let out at any time, the annual value is taken
as ‘nil’. If, one is having more than one house property using
all of them for self-occupation, he is entitled to exercise an
option in terms of which, the value of one house property as
specified by him will be taken at nil. The annual value of the
other self occupied house properties will be determined on
notional basis as if these had been let out.

Annual Value of one house away from work place

A person may own a house property, say in Bangalore,
which he normally uses for his residence. He is transferred to
Chennai where he does not own any house property and stays
in a rental accommodation. In such case, the house property

in Bangalore cannot be used for self-occupation and notional
income therefor would normally have been chargeable although
he derives no benefit from the property. To save the taxpayer
from hardship in such situations, it has been specifically
provided that the annual value of such a property would be
taken to be nil subject to the following conditions:

* The assessee must be owner of only one house property.

* He is not able to occupy the house property because of
his employment, business etc. being away from place
where the property is situated.

* The property should not have been actually let.

* He has to reside at the place of employment in a building
not belonging to him [Section 23(2)(b)].

* He does not derive any other benefit from the property
not occupied.

Determination of Annual Value of Let out house properties

In respect of a let out house property, the rent received
is usually taken as the annual lettable value. When, however,
the rent is not indicative of the actual earning capacity of the
house, the notional annual value will have to be found and
adopted. The standard rent would be the Annual Value in the
case of properties, subject to Rent Control Legislation, as
mentioned earlier. However, when the actual rent received or
receivable is higher than the notional value as calculated
above, the higher figure will be taken for the purpose of
Income-tax. From the annual value as determined above,
municipal taxes are to be deducted if the following conditions
are fulfilled:

¢ The property is let out during the whole or any part of
the previous year (There is no such deduction in respect
of a self-occupied house property).
