constructed, as reduced by any part thereof allowed as
deduction under any other provision of this Act, shall be
deducted under this clause in equal instalments for the said
previous year and for each of the four immediately
succeeding previous years:

Provided also that no deduction shall be made under
the second proviso unless the assessee furnishes a
certificate, from the person to whom any interest is
payable on the capital borrowed, specifying the amount
of interest payable by the assessee for the purpose
of such acquisition or construction of the property,
or, conversion of the whole or any part of the
capital borrowed which remains to be repaid as a
new loan.

Explanation.-For the purposes of this proviso, the
expression “new loan” means the whole or any part of

Special provision for cases where unrealised rent
allowed as deduction is realised subsequently.

25A. Where a deduction has been made under clause (x) of sub-

section (1) of section 24 as it stood immediately before its
substitution by the Finance Act, 2001 in the assessment for
any year in respect of rent from property let to a tenant
which the assessee cannot realise and subsequently during
any previous year the assessee has realised any amount in
respect of such rent, the amount so realised shall be
deemed to be income chargeable under the head “ Income
from house property” and accordingly charged to income-
tax (without making any deduction under section 23 or
section 24 as it stood immediately before its substitution by
the Finance Act, 2001) as the income of that previous year,
whether the assessee is the owner of that property in that
year or not.

Unrealised rent received subsequently to be charged to

a loan taken by the assessee subsequent to capital :
income-tax.

borrowed, for the purpose of repayment of such capital.
25AA. Where the assessee cannot realise rent from a property
let to a tenant and subsequently the assessee has realised
any amount in respect of such rent, the amount so realised
shall be deemed to be income chargeable under the head
“Income from house property” and accordingly charged

Amount not deductible from income from house property.

25. Notwithstanding anything contained in section 24, any
interest chargeable under this Act which is payable
outside India (not being interest on a loan issued for

public subscription before the Ist day of April, 1938), on
which tax has not been paid or deducted under Chapter
XVI-B and in respect of which there is no person in

to income-tax as the income of that previous year in
which such rent is realised whether or not the assessee is
the owner of that property in that previous year.

India who may be treated as an agent under section 163
shall not be deducted in computing the income chargeable
under the head “Income from house property”. 25B. Where the assessee-

Special provision for arrears of rent received.

(a) is the owner of any property consisting of any
buildings or lands appurtenant thereto which has
been let to a tenant; and

34 35
