Property-the common view

In common parlance, property is understood in wide sense.
It is not only the thing which is the subject matter of ownership
but is taken to mean ‘dominon’ or right of ownership or even
partial ownership. Lord Longdale in John v. Skinner (1836) 5Lg
67-90 (Ch) has described it as the most comprehensive of all the
terms which can be used in as much as it is indicative and
descriptive of every possible interest which a person can have.
However, for purposes of taxation under sections 22 to 27 of the
Act, such wider definition of property is not relevant. The income
to be taxable should be “Income from House Property”.

Section 22 of the IT Act 1961

Section 22 provides for taxation of ‘annual value’ of a
property consisting of any buildings or lands appurtenant
thereto, of which the assessee is owner, under the head
“income from House Property”. Tax imposed under section
22 is a tax on ‘annual value’ of house property and is not a tax
on “House Property”. However, if a house property
is occupied by a taxpayer for the purpose of business
or profession carried on by him (the profits of which
are chargeable to income tax), annual value of such property
is not chargeable to tax under the head ‘Income from
House Property’.

In the earlier discussion, the phrase ‘lands appurtenant
thereto’ has also been used. It needs to be clarified in this
context that income from letting of vacant plots of land when
there is no adjoining building will not be taxed under this
head (but will be taxed as income from other sources). The
existence of a building is, therefore, an essential perquisite
Building will, of course, include residential house (whether let out

or self occupied), office building, factory building, godowns, flats,
etc. as long as they are not used for business or profession by
owner. And the purpose for which the building is used by the
tenant is also immaterial. Thus, income from letting out godowns
will be taken as income from house property. It does not make
any difference at all if the property is owned by a limited
company or a firm.

CONDITIONS NECESSARY FOR TAXING INCOME
FROM HOUSE PROPERTY

These are:

* The property should consist of any building or land
appurtenant thereto

* The assessee should be the owner of the property

* The property should not be used by the owner for the
purpose of any business or profession carried on by him,
the profits of which are chargeable to tax.

Unless all the aforesaid conditions are satisfied, the
property income cannot be charged to tax under the head
‘Income from House property’.

‘Owner’-concept explained

For the purpose of section 22, the concept hitherto
understood even in court decisions has been that the owner
has to be a legal owner. Annual value of property is assessed
to tax under section 22 in the hands of owner even if he is not
in receipt of income or even if income is received by some
other person. For instance, if a person makes gift of rental
income to a friend or a relative, without transferring ownership
of the property, annual value of property is taxable in the
