Persons who purchase properties on the basis of Power of
Attorney and under long term leases (12 months & more) are
also deemed to be owners. The concept of deemed owner is
introduced to prevent misuse like transferring properties in the
name of spouse or minor child etc. and for assessment of income
in the hands of beneficial owner.

Co-ownership

Section 26 concerns properties which are owned by co-
owners. This section provides that where property consisting
of building or buildings and land appurtenant thereto is owned
by two or more persons and their respective shares are
definite and ascertainable such persons shall not, in respect of
such property, be assessed as an association of persons, but
the share of each such person in the income from the property
as computed in accordance with sections 22 to 25 shall be
included in his total income. In such an eventuality, the relief
admissible under section 23(2) shall also be separately
allowable to each such person [Explanation to Section 26].

RR
fe afo of

CHAPTER II

DETERMINATION OF INCOME FROM
HOUSE PROPERTY

The determination of ‘Annual Value’ is important in the
context of taxation of income from House Property because
though the tax under the head ‘Income from house property’
is tax on income, yet it is not in that sense a tax on income
but upon inherent capacity of such property to yield income
and for this ‘annual value’ is the yardstick. The inherent
capacity has been defined as the sum for which the property
might reasonably be expected to be let from year to'year. It is
not necessary, that the property should be actually let. It is
also not necessary that the reasonable return from property
should be equal to the actual rent realized when the property
is, in fact, let out. Where the actual rent received is more than
the reasonable return, it has been specifically provided that
the actual rent will be the annual value. Where, however, the
actual rent is less than the reasonable rent (e.g. in case where
the tenancy is affected by manipulation, emergency, close
relationship or such other consideration), the latter will be
annual value. The municipal value of the property, the cost of
construction, the standard rent if any under the Rent Control
Act, the rent of similar properties in the same locality are
relevant factors for the determination of the annual value.
However, if a property is let and was vacant during any part
or whole of the year and due to such vacancy, the rent
received is less than the notional rent, such lesser amount
