The Municipal taxes must be borne by the landlord. (If the
municipal taxes or any part thereof are borne by the tenant,
the same will not be deductible).

The municipal taxes must be paid during the year. (Where
the municipal taxes have become due but have not been
actually paid, these will not be allowed. The municipal taxes
may be claimed on payment basis i.e., only in the year they
were paid even if the taxes belonged to a different year).

Amount left after deduction of municipal taxes is net annual
value.

Other Permissible Deductions from Annual Value in cases
of let out properties (Section 24)

The following deductions are permissible:

@

(ii)

deduction equal to 30% of the annual value, irrespective
of any expenditure incurred by the taxpayer (S.24(a)).
No other allowance for repairs, maintenance etc. would
be allowable.

interest on borrowed capital (S. 24(b))

Interest on borrowed capital is allowable as deduction on

accrual basis (even if account books are kept on cash basis)
if capital is borrowed for the purpose of purchase, construction,
repair, renewal or reconstruction of the house property.

The following aspects concerning claim for deduction of

interest are to be kept in view:

@

The interest is deductible on ‘payable’ basis ie. on
accrual basis. Hence it should be claimed on yearly basis
even if no payment has been made during the year.

(ii)

(iti)

(iv)

(v)

(vi)

(vi)

For claiming interest, it is not necessary that the lender
should have a charge on the property for the principal
amount or the interest amount.

In Shew Kissan Bhatter v. CIT (1973) 89 ITR 61 (SC) the
Supreme Court has decided that interest payable for
outstanding interest is not deductible.

Taxpayer cannot claim deduction for any brokerage or
commission paid for arranging loan either as a one time
arrangement or on periodical basis till the loan continues.

In terms of circular No. 28 dated 20" August 1969, if
an assessee takes a fresh loan to pay back the earlier
loan, the interest on the fresh loan would be deductible.

Interest on borrowing can be claimed as deduction only
by the person who has acquired or constructed the
property with borrowed fund. It is not available to the
successor to the property (if the successor has not
utilized borrowed funds for acquisition, etc). In other
words, the relationship of borrower and lender must
come into existence before it can be said that any
amount or any other money is borrowed for the purpose
of construction, acquisition, etc., of house property by
one person from another and there must be real
transaction of borrowing and lending in order to amount
to any borrowing.

In case of Central Government employees, interest on
house building advance taken under the House Building
Advance Rules (Ministry of Works and Housing) would
be deductible on the basis of accrual of interest which
would start running from the date of drawal of advance.
The interest that accrues in terms of rule 6 of the House
