CHAPTER VI

PROVISIONS RELATING TO
TAXATION OF INCOME FROM HOUSE
PROPERTIES AT A GLANCE

Computation of income from
house property (At a glance)

occupation)

In case of one In case of one SOP] In case of let out In case of more than
one SOP (excluding

SOP away from work place || property one property for
(kept for self which AV is taken as

Nil)

ALV=NIL

Deduction on account of interest
on borrowed capital only upto
Rs. 30,000/-or Rs. 1,50,000/- as
the case may be.

Note: AV=Annual Value of the property
MV = Municipal Valuation
RC Act = Rent Control Act

ALV = Annual Lettable value of the property

SOP = Self occupied property

‘ALV to be calculated as under:

Where RC Act applicable

(i) Standard rent under the RC Act; or

(ii) Actual rent received whichever is higher

(iii) If the property was let and was vacant during a
part of the year and due to such vacancy the rent
received is less than FMV, then such rent
received

(iv) In the case of let out properties, unrealised rent

shall be excluded from the rent received/receivable

to arrive at AV

Where RC Act is not applicable:

Highest of MV, Fair Rent, or Rent Received

T
ALV-Municipal taxes actually paid by owner=AV

Deductions w/s 24

(i) 30% of AV

(ii) interest on the capital borrowed for repairs,
renewals construction, acquisition ete.

- in the case of SOP, the deduction is restri
Rs. 30,000/- or Rs. 1,50,000 (Rs.2 lakhs
2015-16) as the case may be

- in case there is any interest relating to the period
prior to the year of acquisition/construction, the
same shall be deducted in five equal instalments,
beginning with the year in which the property
was acquired/constructed.

Appendix: Sections 22 to 27 of the Income tax Act 1961 as on today are annexed

30

ANNEXURE

Sections of the LT. Act 1961 concerning computation of Income
from House Property (Sections 22 to 27 of the LT. Act, 1961)

Income from house property

22. The annual value of property consisting of any buildings or
lands appurtenant thereto of which the assessee is the
owner, other than such portions of such property as he may
occupy for the purposes of any business or profession
carried on by him the profits of which are chargeable to
income-tax, shall be chargeable to income-tax under the
head “Income from house property”.

Annual value how determined

23. (1) For the purposes of section 22, the annual value of any
property shall be deemed to be-

(a)

(b)

(c)

the sum for which the property might reasonably be
expected to let from year to year; or

where the property or any part of the property is let and
the actual rent received or receivable by the owner in
respect thereof is in excess of the sum referred to in
clause (a), the amount so received or receivable; or

where the property or any part of the property is let and
was vacant during the whole or any part of the previous
year and owing to such vacancy the actual rent
received or receivable by the owner in respect thereof
is less than the sum referred to in clause (a), the
amount so received or receivable:

31
