Building Advance Rules is on the balances outstanding on
the last day of each month - Circular No. 363, dated June
24, 1983.

(viii) Any interest chargeable under the Act, payable out of
India on which tax has not been paid or deducted at
source, and in respect of which there is no person in India
who may be treated as an agent, is not deductible, by
virtue of Section 25, in computing income chargeable under
the head “Income from house property”.

Interest for pre-construction period

Money may be borrowed prior to the acquisition or
construction of the property. In such a case, interest paid/payable
before the final completion of construction or acquisition of the
property will be aggregated and allowed for five successive
financial years starting with the year in which the acquisition or
construction is completed. This deduction is not allowed if the
loan is utilized for repairs, renewal or reconstruction.

Example:- The assessee took a loan of Rs. 3,00,000/- in
April, 2010 from a Bank for construction of a house on a piece
of land which he owns at Meerut. The loan carried interest @
15% p.a. The construction is completed in April 2012 and the
house is given on rent from May 2012. Meanwhile he has
already incurred liability of interest of Rs. 90,000/- for F-Y.
2010-11 and 2011-12. Because of the above provision, the
assessee can claim a deduction in respect of this interest of Rs.
90,000/- (Over and above the yearly interest) in five equal
instalments of Rs. 18,000/- each starting from the assessment
year 2012-13.

Benefit for vacancy for the period when the property
remains vacant (in cases of let out properties).

If due to vacancy, the annual rent received is lower than the
expected rent, then the annual rent realized is taken as the gross
annual value. However, this rule will be applicable only, if the
decline is only because of the vacancy.

Exclusion of unrealised rent from annual value (Expl. to
Section 23(1))

Unrealised rent (which the owner could not realize) shall be
excluded from rent received/receivable only if the following
conditions are satisfied:

a. the tenancy is bona fide;

b. the defaulting tenant has vacated, or steps have been
taken to compel him to vacate the property;

c. the defaulting tenant is not in occupation of any other
property of the assessee;

d. the assessee has taken all reasonable steps to institute legal
proceedings for the recovery of the unpaid rent or satisfies
the Assessing Officer that legal proceedings would be
useless.

Unrealised rent subsequently recovered would be taxable in
the year of receipt. It has been mentioned earlier that basic
requirement for assessment of property income is the ownership
of the property. However, in the cases where unrealised rent
is subsequently realised, it is not necessary that the assessee
continues to be the owner of the property in the year of receipt
also. (Section 25AA)
