co-operative society has to pay for becoming such
shareholder or member; or

b. _ the cost of any addition or alteration to, or renovation or
repair of, the house property which is carried out after
issue of the completion certificate in respect of the
house property by the authority competent to issue such
certificate or after the house property (or any part
thereof) has either been occupied by the assessee or
any other person on his behalf or been let out; or

c. any expenditure in respect of which deduction is
allowable under the provisions of section 24.

Section 80C provides that in computing the total income of
an assessee, deduction shall be provided in respect of various
payments/investments made as included in the aforesaid Section
subject to a ceiling of Rs.1 lakh on the aggregate amount of such
payments/investments.

Section 80C(5) stipulates that in case an assessee transfers
the house property referred to above before the expiry of five
years from the end of the financial year in which possession of
such property is obtained by him, or receives back, whether by
way of refund or otherwise, any sum specified above, then no
deduction shall be allowed with reference to any of the sums
referred to above and the aggregate amount of deductions of
income already allowed in respect of the previous year or years
shall be deemed to be the income of the assessee of such
previous year and shall be liable to tax in the assessment year
relevant to such previous year.

Soe oh
fe fe afo

22

CHAPTER V

SOME ILLUSTRATIONS

Illustration I

In the context of a residential property, the following
information relateable to the Asst. Year 2014-15 is given for
determination of the Gross Annual Value (GAV):

(i) Municipal Valuation Rs. 1,20,000 p.a.

(ii) Rent on which property
has been let out Rs. 20,000 p.m. Rs 2,40,000 p.a.

(ili) Period for which property
remained vacant 2 months
The GAV would be Rs. 2,00,000.

In respect of this property, the assessee incurs following
expenses during the year 2013-14:

(A) Municipal taxes (including Rs. 2000
relating to previous year) Rs. 9,000

(B) Repairs Rs. 12,000

(C) Interest on money borrowed for
construction of the house from

Canara Bank Rs. 28,000
(D) Repayment of Loan for house
Construction to Canara Bank Rs. 24,000
(E) Chowkidar & Mali’s pay Rs. 20,000
23
