(i) quote his tax deduction and collection account quarter of the financial year ending with the
number (TAN) in the statement; date specified in column (2) of the Table below
shall be furnished by the due date specified in

ii te his t t ber (PAN) in th
(ii) quote his permanent account number ( ) in the the corresponding entry in column (3) of the

statement except in the case where the deductor is

an office of the Government; said Table:-
(iii) quote the permanent account number of all SLNo. Date of ending of the Due date
deductees;
quarter of the
(iv) furnish particulars of the tax paid to the Central (i) financial year (ii) (iii)
Government including book identification number L. 30th June 15th July of the
or challan identification number, as the case may . .
b financial year
e.
2. 30th Septemb 15th October of th
(5) The Director General of Income-tax (Systems), shall epremper financial ©
specify the procedures, formats and standards for the y
purposes of furnishing of the statements and shall be 3. 31st December 15th January of the
responsible for the day to day administration in relation financial year
to furnishing of the statements in the manner so specified. 4. 31st March 15th May of the
(6) Where a statement of tax deducted at source is to be financial year immediately
furnished for tax deducted before the Ist day of April, following the financial year
2010, the provisions of this rule and rule 37A shall apply in which deduction is made
as they stood immediately before their substitution or
omission by the Income-tax (Amendment) Rules, 2010. (3) (i) The statement referred to in sub- rule (1) may be furnished
Statement of collection of tax under proviso to in any of the following manners, namely:-—

b-section - (3) of section 206C.
sub-section - (3) of section (a) furnishing the statement in paper form;

Rule 31AA. (1) Every collector, shall, in accordance with the

provisions of the proviso to sub-Section (3) of (b) furnishing the statement electronically in
Section 206C, deliver, or cause to be delivered, accordance with the procedures, formats and
to the Director General of Income-tax standards specified under sub-rule (5) alongwith
(Systems) or the person authorised by the the verification of the statement in Form 27A.
Director General of Income-tax (Systems), a
quarterly statement in Form No. 27EQ. (ii) Where,-

(2) Statements referred to in sub rule (1) for the (a) the collector is an office of the Government; or

48 49

iF Jha
