(3)

(a)

(b)

(4)

(5)

In the case of an office of the Government, where tax
has been paid to the credit of the Central Government
without the production of a challan, the Pay and Accounts
Officer or the Treasury Officer or the Cheque Drawing
and Disbursing Officer or any other person by whatever
name called to whom the collector reports the tax so
collected and who is responsible for crediting such sum
to the credit of the Central Government, Shall-

submit a statement in Form No. 24G within ten days
from the end of the month to the agency authorised by
the Director General of Income-tax (Systems) in respect
of tax collected by the collectors and reported to him for
that month; and

intimate the number (hereinafter referred to as the Book
Identification Number) generated by the agency to each
of the collectors in respect of whom the sum collected
has been credited.

For the purpose of sub-rule (3), the Director General of
Income tax (Systems) shall specify the procedures,
formats and standards for ensuring secure capture and
transmission of data, and shall also be responsible for
the day to day administration in relation to furnishing the
information in the manner so specified.

(i) Where tax has been deposited accompanied by an
income-tax challan, the tax collected under sub
section (1) or sub-section (1C) of section 206C shall
be deposited to the credit of the Central
Government by remitting it within the time specified
in clause (b) of sub-rule (1) or in sub-rule (2) into
any branch of the Reserve Bank of India or of the
State Bank of India or of any authorized bank.

(ii) Where tax is to be deposited in accordance with
clause (i), by persons referred to in sub-rule (1) of

38

(6)

(a)

(b)
(7)

tule 125, the amount collected shall be electronically
remitted into the Reserve Bank of India or the State
Bank of India or any authorized bank accompanied
by an electronic income-tax challan.

For the purpose of this rule, the amount shall be construed
as electronically remitted to the Reserve Bank of India
or to the State Bank of India or to any authorized bank,
if the amount is remitted by way of-

internet banking facility of the Reserve Bank of India or
of the State Bank of India or of any authorized bank, or

debit card.

Where tax is collected before the 1“ day of April, 2010,
the provisions of this rule shall apply as they stood
immediately before their substitution by the Income-tax
( Amendment) Rules, 2010.

4.6 Certificate of tax collected at source u/s 206(C)(5)

Section 206(C)(5) casts a statutory duty on every person
collecting tax at source to issue a certificate of tax collected at
source to the buyer. This certificate is to specify the sum so collected
the rate at which tax has been collected and such other particulars
as may be prescribed. The particulars of this certificate(form and
prescribed details) has been specified in Rule 37D. The L.T.(6"
Amendment) Rules has introduced the new Rule 37D which is as

follows :

Rule 37D.

qd)

(2)

The certificate of collection of tax at source under sub-
section (5) of section 206C to be furnished by the
collector shall be in Form 27D.

The certificate referred to in sub rule (1) shall specify:-

39
