institution referred to in Section 51 of the
Banking Regulation Act,1949.

(vii) Any interest credited or paid by the Central
Government under the Income-tax Act or
other allied Acts like Wealth-Tax, Estate-
Duty,Super Profit, Sur-tax or Interest Tax Act.

ha

Interest earned on deposits with - a primary
agricultural credit society.

- aprimary agricultural credit society.

- aprimary credit society.

- aCo-operative land mortgage bank.

- aCo-operative land development bank.

- aCo-operative society engaged in banking

business (other than time deposits on or
after 1-7-1995).

(ix) Income credited or paid by way of interest on
compensation awarded by the Motor accidents
cause tribunal. However, the aggregate
amount of income paid/credited should not
exceed fifty thousand rupees.

(x) Income paid/payable by infrastructure capital
company /fund or public sector company in
relation to zero coupon bond issued after1.6.05.

3.4 Winnings from lotteries or crossword puzzle etc.

Under Section 194B, winnings from lottery or crossword puzzle
or card game and other game of any sort exceeding Rs. 5000/-
(Rs. 10,000/- w.e.f. 1/7/2010) are also subject to deduction of
tax at source as per rates in force. The deduction is to be done at
the time of payment of the winnings.

14

In cases where the winnings are wholly in kind or where they
are partly in cash and partly in kind but the part in cash is not
sufficient to meet the tax liability for tax deduction in respect of the
whole of the winning, the person responsible for paying shall before
releasing the winning either in cash or in kind ensure that tax is
paid in respect of the winnings.

3.5 Winning from horse race -

Section 194BB enjoins any person, who is a bookmaker or
a licensee for horse racing in a race course or arranger for wagering
or betting in any race course, and is responsible for paying to any
person the winning from such horse race, to deduct income-tax at
source. The deduction is to be done as per rates in force. The
only exemption is for winnings of Rs.2500/- or below. This
exemption limit has been raised to Rs. 5,000/- w.e.f. 1/7/2010.

3.6 Payments to contractor -

Section 194C applies to a person who is responsible for
“paying any sum to a contractor or sub-contractor”. Such
contractor or sub-contractor should be a _ resident in terms of
section 6 of the LT. Act, 1961.

As per Section 194C the payer is enjoined to deduct tax at
source at the time of credit of any sum to the account of
contractor or at the time of payment either in cash or by
cheque or draft which ever is earlier.

¢ The deduction is to be done for payment for carrying out any
work(including supply of labour) in pursuance of a contract
between the contractor and a specified person.

The deduction is to be made at the following rates :
(i) 1% where payment/credit is to an individual/HUF.

(ii) 2% where recipient is any other person.

15
