bound to furnish this certificate to the person from whose income/
payment the tax has been deducted. The certificate should specify
the amount of tax deducted and rate at which it is deducted (Form
No. 16A, under Rule 31) and other particulars prescribed. A new
form 16A has been introduced w.e.f. from 1/4/2010
vide Income-tax (6 Amendment) Rule, 2010(PI. Ref.
Annexure — 4). The new Rule 31 introduced vide I.T.
(6 Amendment) Rules provides the following with respect to
certificate of deduction of tax.

Rule - 31

(1) The certificate of deduction of tax at source by any person
in accordance with Chapter XVII-B or the certificate of
payment of tax by the employer on behalf of the
employee under sub section (1A) of section 192 shall be
in.

(a) Form No. 16, if the deduction or payment of tax is under
section 192; and

(b) Form No. 16A if the deduction is under any other
provision of Chapter X VII-B.

(2) The certificate referred to in sub-rule (1) shall specify:
(a) valid permanent account number (PAN) of the deductee;

(b) valid tax deduction and collection account number (TAN)
of the deductor;

(c) (i) book identification number or numbers where
deposit of tax deducted is without production of
challan in case of an office of the Government;

(ii) challan identification number or numbers in case of
payment through bank.

(d) (i) receipt number of the relevant quarterly statement
of tax deducted at source which is furnished in
accordance with the provisions of rule 31A;

34

(3)

(ii) receipt numbers of all the relevant quarterly
statements in case the statement referred to in
clause (i) is for tax deducted at source from income
chargeable under the head “Salaries”.

The certificates in Forms specified in column (2) of the
Table below shall be furnished to the employee or the
payee, as the case may be, as per the periodicity specified
in the corresponding entry in column (3) and by the time
specified in the corresponding entry in column (4) of the
said Table:-

SI.No.

()

Form No. | Periodicity Due date
(2) (3) (4)

16 Annual By 31st day of May of the
financial year immediately
following the financial year
in which the income was
paid and tax deducted

16A Quarterly | Within fifteen days from the
due date for furnishing the
statement of tax deducted at
source under rule 31A.

(4)

(5)

If an assessee is employed by more than one employer
during the year, each of the employers shall issue Part A
of the certificate in Form No. 16 pertaining to the period
for which such assessee was employed with each of the
employers and Part B may be issued by each of the
employers or the last employer at the option of the
assessee.

The deductor may issue a duplicate certificate in Form
No. 16 or Form No. 16A if the deductee has lost the
original certificate so issued and makes a request for

35
