be submitted in form 26Q by the deductors. The details of
quarterly statement are specified below.

5.4 Quarterly statement of TDS

The provisions of quarterly statements of TDS have been
introduced in the statute vide section 200(3) w.e.f. 01/04/2005.
Every person responsible for deducting tax is required to file
quarterly statements of TDS for the quarter ending on 30" June,
30" September, 31 December, and 31“ March in each Financial
Year. This statement is to be prepared in

a) Form No.26 Q for TDS other than salaries.
b) Form No.27 EQ for Tax collection at source.

ce) Form 27Q in respect of a deductee who is non resident
not being a company or a foreign company or
resident but not ordinarily resident.

d) Form 27 EQ for tax collection at source.
e) 24Q( deduction of tax u/s 192 for salaries).
(relevant rules 31A and 31AA)

These statements are to be delivered with the prescribed
income-tax authority or the person authorized by such authority on
or before the 15" July, the 15" October and the 15" January in
respect of the first three quarters of the Financial Year and on or
before the 15" May following the last three quarters of the Financial
Year.

With respect to the quarterly statements of TDS, the
following points are noteworthy : -

¢ Every deductor is required to file the quarterly statement of
TDS in prescribed form for each quarter as per the dates
specified above a deductor required to get accounts audited
u/s 44AB and a deductor having more than 20 deductees in
record of any year.

42

In case of every Government and Corporate deductor, the
quarterly statements are to be delivered on computer readable
media (3.5", 1.44 MB floppy diskette or CD-Rom of 650 MB
capacity). The statement in computer readable media is to
be prepared as per data structure provided by the e-filing
Administrator(DGIT Systems) designated by the Board for
purposes of e-TDS(Amended Rule 37A has made it
mandatory for e-filing of TDS statements in certain other cases
also. (PI. refer to I.T.(6" Amendment 2010 provided later)).

Scheme : 2003. Further, a declaration in Form 27A or 27B is
also to be submitted in paper format.

A person other than a corporate or government deductor may
at his option deliver the quarterly statements in computer
readable media as specified above. However, it is not
mandatory for him to do so.

The quarterly statements are to be furnished in accordance
with the provisions of rule 31A and rule 31AA.

The persons referred to in Section 37A (who are making
payment to a non-resident or a foreign company) are required
to file quarterly statements in accordance with provisions of
tule 37A and rule 37B.

It is mandatory for the deductor to quote TAN and PAN in
the quarterly statements. However, whether the deduction
has been made by or on behalf of the Government, PAN shall
not be required to be quoted in the quarterly statement.

In the quarterly statements, the deductor is also required to
quote the Permanent Account Number (PAN) of all persons
in respect of whom Income-tax has been deducted. However,
PAN of those persons is not required to be quoted who are
specified under second proviso to sub section 5(b) to section
139A. These persons include those who are not required to

43
