Even where the credit is made in any account called
“Suspense Account” or in the books of account of the person
liable to pay such income, such credit will be deemed to be in
the account of payee (contractor or sub-contractor as the
case may be) and deduction of tax will have to be made.

Where any sum is paid or credited for carrying out any work
pertaining to manufacturing or supplying a product according
to the requirement or specification of a customer by using
material purchased by such customer, then the tax is to be
deducted at source ;

(i) on the invoice value excluding the value of material, if
such value is mentioned separately in the invoice; or

(ii) on the whole of the invoice value, if the value of the
material is not mentioned separately in the invoice.

Exemption -

(i) No TDS to be done by an Individual or an HUF on a
contractual payment of work which is for personal
purposes of the individual or the HUF.

(ii) If the credit or the payment in pursuance of the contract
does not exceed Rs.20,000/-, no deduction has to be made
at source.

This amount has been increased to Rs. 30,000/- w.e.f.
1/7/2010 by Finance Act, 2010. However, if the aggregate
of all amounts paid/credited or likely to be paid/credited
exceeds Rs. 75,000/- then tax at source is to be deducted.

(iii) No deduction is to be made for sum credited/paid to a
contractor during the course of business of plying/hiring/
leasing of good/carriages on furnishing Pan to the payer/
deductor.

(i) ‘specified person’ shall mean, -

16

(a)

(b)
(c)

(d)
(e)
(f)

(g)

(h)

@

0)

(k)
eo)

the Central Government or any State Government;
or

any local authority; or

any corporation established by or under a Central,
State or Provincial Act; or

any company ; or
any co-operative society ; or

any authority, constituted in India by or under any
law, engaged either for the purpose of dealing with
and satisfying the need for housing
accommodation or for the purpose of planning,
development or improvement of cities, towns and
villages, or for both; or

any society registered under the Societies
Registration Act, 1860(21 of 1860) or under any
law corresponding to that Act in force in any part
of India; or

any trust; or

any university established or incorporated by or
under a Central State or Provincial Act and an
institution declared to be university under section 3
of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956(3
of 1956); or

any Government of a foreign State or a foreign
enterprise or any association or body established
outside India; or

any firm; or

any person, being an individual or a Hindu undivided
family or an association of persons or a body of
individuals, if such person -

17
