26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

Will a deductee be able to view his ledger account on
TIN website?

Yes.

If a deductee finds discrepancy in his PAN ledger
account, what is the mechanism available for correction?

The details regarding the help required for filing of eTDS are
available on the following two websites: http://
www.incometaxindia. gov.in/http://www.tin-nsdl.com/

The TIN Facilitation Centers of the NSDL at over 270 cities
are also available for all related help in the e filing of the TDS
returns.

Whether the eTDS can be filed online?

Yes, e-TDS return can be filed online under digital signature.

Will the Paper TDS data be available online on TIN
database?

Yes, the Paper TDS data will also be available in TIN database
after the digitalization of the Paper TDS return by the e-
intermediary.

I do not know the Bank branch code of the branch in
which I deposited tax. Can I leave this field blank?

Bank Branch code or BSR code is a 7 digit code allotted to
banks by RBI. This is different from the branch code which
is used for bank drafts etc. This no. is given in the OLTAS
challan or can be obtained from the bank branch or from
http://www.tin-nsdl.com. It is mandatory to quote BSR code
both in challan details and deductee details. Hence, this
field cannot be left blank. Government deductors transfer
tax by book entry, in which case the BSR code can be
left blank.

78

31.

32.

33.

34.

What should I mention in the field “paid by book entry
or otherwise” in deduction details?

If payment to the parties (on which TDS has been deducted)
has been made actually i.e. by cash, cheque, demand draft or
any other acceptable mode, then “otherwise” has to be
mentioned in the specified field. But if payment has not been
actually made and merely a provision has been made on the
last date of the accounting year, then the option “Paid by Book
Entry” has to be selected.

What is the “Upload File” in the new File Validation
Utility?

Earlier the “Input file” of the File Validation Utility (FVU)
had to be filed with TIN FC. Now “Upload File” which has
some additional information such as the version no. of FVU
has to be filed with TIN FC. This is a file which is generated
by the FYU after the return /file prepared by the Return
Preparation Utility (RPU) is validated using the FYU.

By whom should the control chart Form 27A be signed?

Form 27A is the summary of the TDS return. It has to be
signed by the same person who is authorized to sign the TDS
return in paper format.

What are the Control Totals appearing in the Error /
response File generated by validating the text file
through File Validation Utility (FVU) of NSDL?

The Control Totals in Error response File are generated only
when a valid file is generated. Otherwise, the file shows the
kind of errors. The control totals are as under:

¢ No. of deductee/party records: In case of Form 24Q, it
is equal to the number of employees for which TDS
return is being prepared. In case of Form 26/ 27, it is

79
