13.

Whether any charges are to be paid to the e-TDS
Intermediary?

The assessee is to pay following charges as upload charges
at the time of filing of e-TDS return to M/s NSDL.

Category of e-TDS return Upload charges

Returns having up to 100 deductees Rs.25/-
records

Returns having 101 to 1000 deductees |Rs. 150/-
records

Returns having more than 1000 Rs.500/-
deductees records

Tax as applicable will also be paid by
the deductor.

14.

15.

How to find address of the office where e-TDS
return can be filed?

Addresses of the TIN FCs are available on
www.incometaxindia.gov.in or at_www.tin-nsdl.com..

What are the due dates for filing quarterly TDS
Returns?

The due dates for filing quarterly TDS returns, both electronic
and paper are as under:

Quarter Due Date | Due Date for 27 Q
April to June July 15 14 July
July to September October 15 | 14 October
October to December January 15 | 14 January
January to March June 15 14 June
74

16. E-TDS returns have been made mandatory for
Government deductors. How do I know whether I am a
Government deductor or not?

All Drawing and Disbursing Officers of Central and State
Governments come under the category of government deductors.

17. Whether the particulars of the whole year or of the
relevant quarter are to be filled in Annexures I, II and
Ill of Form 24Q?

In Annexure I, only the actual figures for the relevant quarter
are to be reported.

In Annexures II & III, estimated/actual particulars for the
whole financial year are to be given. However, Annexures II
& IL are optional in the return for the 1st, 2nd and 3rd quarters
but in the quarterly statement for the last quarter, it is mandatory
to furnish Annexures II & III giving actual particulars for the
whole financial year.

18. In Form 24Q, should the particulars of even those
employees be given whose income is below the
threshold limit or in whose case, the income after giving
deductions for savings etc. is below the threshold limit?

Particulars of only those employees are to be reported from
the Ist quarter onwards in Form 24Q in whose case the
estimated income for the whole year is above the threshold limit.

In case the estimated income for the whole year of an
employee after allowing deduction for various savings like
PPF, GPF, NSC etc. comes below the taxable limit, his
particulars need not be included in Form 24Q.

In case due to some reason estimated annual income of an
employee exceeds the exemption limit during the course of
the year, tax should be deducted in that quarter and his
particulars reported in Form 24Q from that quarter onwards.

75
