obtain PAN under any provisions of this Act or those whose
total income is not chargeable to Income-tax.

The deductor is also required to furnish the particulars of tax
paid to the Central Government in the quarterly statements.

The deductor is required to furnish particulars of amount paid
or credited on which no tax was deducted as a certificate for
non-deduction of tax u/s 197 was issued by the assessing
officer to the payee.

He is also to furnish particulars of amount paid or credited or
which tax was not deducted in view of compliance of provision
of sec. 194(6) by the payee.

Quarterly statement of collection of tax under sub-
section( 3) of section 206C

Every person, being a person responsible for collecting tax
under section 206C shall, in accordance with the proviso to
sub-section(3) of Section 206C, deliver or cause to be delivered
to [the Director General of Income-tax(Systems) or the
person authorized by the Director General of Income-
tax(Systems)], quarterly statement in Form No. 27EQ on or
before the 15" July, the 15" October, the 15" January in
respect of the first three quarters of the financial year and on
or before the 30" April following the last quarter of the financial
year :

that the person responsible for collecting tax at source on
behalf of Government and the principal officer in the case of
every company responsible for collecting tax at source shall
deliver or cause to be delivered such quarterly statements on
computer media(3.5" 1.44 MB floppy diskette or CD-ROM
of 650 MB capacity):

that a person other than a person referred to in the first proviso,
responsible for collecting tax at source, may at his option,

44

deliver or cause to be delivered the quarterly statements on
computer media(3.5" 1.44 MB floppy diskette or CD-ROM
of 650 MB capacity).

the person responsible for collecting tax at source and
preparing quarterly statements shall,

(i) quote his tax deduction and collection account
number(TAN) and permanent account number(PAN)
in the quarterly statement.

(ii) provided that the permanent account number shall not
be acquired to be quoted where tax has been collected
by or on behalf of the Government ;

(ii) furnish particulars of the tax paid to the Central
Government;

The person responsible for collecting tax at source and
preparing quarterly statements on computer media shall, in
addition to the provisions in sub-rule(2), prepare the quarterly
statement as per the data structure provided by the e-filing
administrator designated by the Board for the purposes of
administration of Electronic Filing of Returns of Tax collected
at Source Scheme, 2005 supported by a declaration in Form
No. 27A in paper format; Provided that in case any
compression software has been used for preparing the
quarterly statement on computer media, such compression
software shall be furnished on the same computer media;

Amended provision pertaining to quarterly statement

Vide I.T.(6" Amendment) Rule, 2010 notification dt.

31.5.2010, the rule 31A and 31 AA pertaining to statements of
deduction of tax u/s 200(3) and collection of tax u/s 206(3) has
been amended. The new provisions are as follows :

31A. (1) Every person responsible for deduction of tax under

Chapter XVII-B, shall, in accordance with the provisions of

45
