foreign company on payment of any interest or any sum chargeable
under the provisions of IT Act which is not in nature of salaries.

Tax is to be deducted at the time of payment or at the time of
credit to A/c of payee, interest payable a/c or suspense a/c,
whichever is earlier.

(However, TDS is to be done only at the time of payment in
cash or issue of cheque/draft or any other mode, in case of interest
of mutual fund payable by Govt/ public sector bank or in financial
institution). However, no tax to be deducted (w.e.f.1.6.97) in case
of payment of dividend referred in Sec 115(O). Further, payee can
make application in Form no 13,15C,15D to Assessing Officer to
obtain certificate for non-deduction at lower rate of tax.

3.20 Interest or Dividend or any sum payable to
Government/RBI/Certain Corporations — Sec. 196

Section 196 provides that no deduction of tax is to be done
from interest or Dividend or any sum payable to Government or
RBI or certain Corporation established by or under any Central
Act which is exempt from income-tax on its income. However,
such sum should be payable by way of interest or any other income
accruing or arising to it or as dividend in respect of securities or
shares owned by it or in which it has full beneficial interest.

3.21 Income from mutual fund etc. to non-
residents - 196A

No deduction shall be made under this section on any amount
credited or paid on or after 1.4.2003.

3.22 Income from units - Sec. 196-B

This section enjoins the payer to deduct tax @ 10% from
payments to an off shore fund in respect of units referred to in
section 115AB or payments by way of long term capital gains
arising from transfer of such units. The deductions is to be done at

26

the time of credit in the account or at the time of payment in cash
through cheque or draft or any other mode, which ever is earlier.

3.23 Income from foreign currency, bonds or
shares of Indian Company — Sec. 196C

Where any income by way of interest or dividends in respect
of Bonds or Global Depository Receipts referred to in Section 115AC
or by way of long term capital gains arising from their transfer is
payable to a non-resident, then TDS @ 10% is to be done on such
payments, at the time of credit of income in account or any payment
through cash/cheque, which ever is earlier. No such deduction is
to be made in respect of any dividend referred in Sec. 115-O

3.24 Income of Foreign Institutional investors
from securities - Sec. 196 D

This section applies to payments in respect of securities
referred to in clause (a) of sub-section(1) of Section 115AD payable
to foreign Institutional Investor. The payer is required to deduct
tax @ 20% of the income when the same is credited to the account
or paid in cash, through cheque or draft etc. which ever is earlier.
No deduction is to be done in respect of dividends referred in
section 115-O.

3.25 Sale of Liquor / Timber — Tax Collection at
source

Section 206C of the IT. Act prescribes collection of tax at
source. It applies to business of following ;

G) Alcoholic liquor for human consumption,

(ii) Tendu leaves,

(ii) Timber obtained under a forest lease,

(iv) Timber obtained by any mode other than under a
forest lease,

27
