8.5 Checklist for Deductor

After preparing the e-TDS return deductor should check the
following to ensure that the e-TDS return is complete and is
ready for furnishing to TIN-FC :

¢ — e-TDS return is in conformity with the file format notified
by ITD.

¢ Each e-TDS return is furnished in a separate CD/floppy
alongwith duly filled and signed Form 27A in physical
form.

¢ Separate Form 27A in physical form is furnished for each
e-TDS return.

¢ Form 27A is duly filled and signed by an authorized
signatory.

¢ Striking and overwriting, if any, on Form 274A are ratified
by the person who has signed Form 27A.

¢ More than one e-TDS return is not furnished in one CD/
floppy.

¢ — More than one CD/floppy is not used for furnishing one
e-TDS return.

¢ Label is affixed on CD/floppy containing details of
deductor/collector like name of deductor/collector, TAN,
Form no. and period to which return pertains.

e« e-TDS return is compressed, using Winzip 8.1 or
ZipltFast 3.0 compression (or higher version) utility only.

¢ TAN quoted in e-TDS return and stated on Form 27A is
same. Confirm new TAN by using search facility on
ITD website .

¢ — Carry copy of TAN allotment letter from ITD or screen
print from ITD website as proof of TAN to avoid

66

inconvenience at time of furnishing due to minor variation
in way of transcribing the new TAN in e-TDS return.

¢ Incase of government deductors if TAN is not available
at the time of furnishing return, application for TAN (Form
49B) should be made along with e-TDS return or copy
of acknowledgement of TAN application to be submitted.

° Control totals, TAN and name mentioned in e-TDS return
match with those mentioned on Form 27A.

° In case of Form 24, copies of certificates of no deduction
of TDS and deduction of TDS at concessional rate,
received from deductees are attached.

e _e-TDS return has been successfully passed through the
FVU.

¢  CD/floppy furnished is virus free.
8.6 Quarterly Statements of TDS :

The provisions of quarterly statements of TDS have been
introduced in the statute vide section 200(3) w.e.f. 01/04/2005.
Every person responsible for deducting tax is required to file
quarterly statements of TDS for the quarter ending on 30" June,
30" September, 31“ December, and 31“ March in each Financial
Year. This statement is to be prepared in Form No. 24Q (relevant
rule 31A) and is to be delivered with prescribed income-tax authority
[Director General of Income tax (System) ]or the person authorized
by such authority on or before the 15" July, the 15" October and
the 15" January in respect of the first 3 quarters of the Financial
Year and on or before the 15". May following the last quarter of
the Financial Year(The date of filing quarterly statement of
last quarter has been changed from 15 June to15th of May
vide I.T.(6" amendment) Rule 2010 for F.Y. 2010-11 and
onwards).

67
