With respect to the quarterly statements of TDS, the

following points are noteworthy : -

Every deductor is required to file the quarterly statement
of TDS in form No. 24Q for each quarter as per the
dates specified above.

In case of the following ;
(a) Every Government deductor,
(b) Corporate deductor,

(c) The deductor is a person required to get his accounts
audited under sec. 44 AB in the immediately
preceding financial year or,

(d) the number of deductee’s records in a statement
for any quarter of the financial year is twenty or
more, the quarterly statements are to be delivered
on computer readable media (3.5" 1.44 MB floppy
diskette or CD-Rom of 650 MB capacity). The
statement in computer readable media is to be
prepared as per data structure provided by the e-
filing Administrator(DGIT Systems) designated by
the Board for purposes of e-TDS Scheme : 2003.
Further, a declaration in Form 27A is also to be
submitted in paper format.

A person other than a corporate or government deductor
and categories specified above, may at his option deliver
the quarterly statements in computer readable media as
specified above. However, it is not mandatory for him
to do so.

The quarterly statements are to be furnished in
accordance with the provisions of rule 37A and rule 37B.

It is mandatory for the deductor to quote the following in
quarterly statements

68

(a) TAN
(b) PAN of the deductor
(c) PAN of all the deductees

(d) Particulars of tax paid to the Central Government
including Book Identification Number or Challan
Identification Number as the case may be.

However, where the deduction has been made by or on behalf

of the Government, PAN shall not be required to be quoted in the
quarterly statement.

¢ The deductor is also required to furnish the particulars
of tax paid to the Central Government in the quarterly
statements.

8.7 Frequently Asked Questions

1.

What is e-TDS Return?

e-TDS return is a TDS return prepared in form No.24,26 or
27 or quarterly statements in electronic media as per prescribed
data structure in either a floppy or a CD ROM. The floppy or
CD ROM prepared should be accompanied by a signed
verification in Form No.27A.

Who is required to file e-TDS return?

As per Section 206 of Income Tax Act all corporate and
government deductors are compulsorily required to file their
TDS return on electronic media (i.e. e-TDS returns). Besides,
those persons requiring to get their accounts audited u/s 44AB
and those deductors in whose records there are twenty or
more deductees are also to submit statements electronically.
However, for other Deductors, filing of e-TDS return is
optional.

69
