a) where amount so payable in a financial year is less than
Rs.2500/- or

b) where payment is made to heirs of a deceased assessee
or

c) where in case of resident individual, no tax is payable if
tax on estimated total income of the previous year
including such withdrawal would be nil anda declaration
by him is furnished to that effect in form 15-I and
verified in prescribed manner by the person responsible
for such — payment.

3.10 | Payment on account of repurchase of units of
mutual fund or UTI - Sec. 194 F.

Deduction of tax at source is to be done on payment on
account of repurchase of units by mutual fund or UTI @20%
at the time of making any payment, by the person responsible
for paying any amount referred to in Sec 80 CCB to any person.

3.11Commission etc. on sale of lottery tickets -Sec.
194G

The person responsible for paying any income by way of
commission, remuneration or Prize on lottery ticket has to deduct
tax @ 10% at the time of credit to the recipient account, or at the
time of payment in cash or issue of cheque/draft, whichever is
earlier. However, no tax is to be deducted ,if the amount does not
exceed Rs.1000/-.

Further, assessee can make an application in Form 13D to the
Assessing Officer, who shall after satisfying himself, issue a
certificate that total income of the person who is or has been
stocking, distributing, purchasing or selling lottery tickets
justifies the deduction of tax at a lower rate or no deduction of tax
at all.

20

3.12 Tax deduction from commission or brokerage -
Sec. 194 H

Any person other than Individual and HUF responsible for
paying any (commission or brokerage to the account of payee
or at the time of payment in cash or by cheque/draft
whichever is earlier, is to deduct tax @ of 10%). Where any
income is credited to any account whether called “Suspense
Account” or by any other name in books of the person liable to pay
such income, such crediting shall be deemed to be credit of such
income to the account of the payee.

However, no tax is deductible if the amount during the financial
year does not exceed Rs.2500/-. The Finance Act, 2010 has
increased the exemption limit to Rs. 5,000/- w.e.f. 1/7/2010.
Commission & Brokerage mean any payment (other than
commission referred to in section 194D) received/receivable
directly or indirectly by a person acting on behalf of another person
for services other than professional services notified by board u/s
44AA or for any services in the course of buying or selling of the
goods or in relation to any transaction relating to any asset, valuable
article or this not being Securities. W.e.f. 1.4.2007 no deduction
is to be made on any commission or brokerage payable by
M/s. BSNL or M/s. MTNL to their public call office
franchises.

3.13 Rent - Sec. 194 I

Any person not being an individual / HUF responsible for paying
rent has to deduct tax at source at the following rates.

(a) 2% for the use of any machinery, plant or equipment.

(b) 10% for use of any land or building(including factory
building) or land appurtenant to a building(including
factory building or furniture or fittings).

21
