(4)

(5)

iii)

(iv)

(b) the collector is the principal officer of a company;
or

(c) the collector is a person who is required to get his
accounts audited under section 44AB in the
immediately preceding financial year;

(d) the number of collectee’s records in a statement
for any quarter of the financial year are twenty or
more, the collector shall furnish the statement in
the manner specified in item (b) of clause (i).

Where the collector is a person other than the person
referred to in clause.

the statement referred to in sub-rule (1) may, at his option,
be delivered or cause to be delivered in the manner
specified in item (b) of clause (i).

The collector at the time of preparing statements of tax

collected shall-

(i) quote his tax deduction and collection account number
(TAN) in the statement;

(ii) quote his permanent account number (PAN) in the
statement except in the case where the collector is an
office of the Government;

(iii) quote the permanent account number of all collectees;

(iv) furnish particulars of the tax paid to the Central

Government including book identification number or
challan identification number, as the case may be.

The Director General of Income tax (Systems) shall specify
the procedures, formats and standards for the purposes of
furnishing of the statements and shall be responsible for the
day to day administration in relation to furnishing of the
statements in the manner so specified.

50

(6) Where a statement of tax collected at source is to be furnished
for tax collected before the 1st day of April, 2010, the
provisions of this rule shall apply as they stood immediately
before their substitution by the Income-tax ( Amendment)
Rules, 2010.

5.5 Filing of Return on Computer Readable Media:

The law also provides for filing of statements in computer
readable media, referred as e-filing of annual return.The provisions
of e-filing of statements of TDS is being given below.

Section 206(2) permits the deductor to file the statement of
TDS on computer readable media including a floppy diskette,
magnetic cartridge or CD ROM. However, the Finance Act 2003
has provided that w.e.f. 01.06.2003, a statement in computer
readable media is to be filed only in accordance with such scheme
and subject to such conditions and manner, as may be specified by
the Board by notification in official gazette.

The scheme of electronic filing of return on the Tax Deducted
at Source (e-TDS) has been notified vide notification no. S.O.
974(e)dt. 26.08.03. The TDS statements in electronic form are to
be filed only with the e-TDS intermediary at any of the TIN
Facilitation Centres (particulars available at the websites,
www.incometaxindia.gov.in and http://tin.nsdl.com).

Further, where the assessing officer considers a statement
filed u/s 206(2) to be defective, then he may intimate the defect to
the deductor/employer filing the statement, giving him an opportunity
to rectify the defect. This must be rectified within a period of 15
days from the date of intimation or within such further period which
the assessing officer allows, on an application made by the
employers/deductor. However, on failure to rectify the defect within
the period specified above, the return shall be treated to be invalid
and the provisions of the Act shall apply as if the person had failed
to deliver the return.

51
