However , to avoid double claim of TDS by the deductor
as well as by the deductee, the following safeguards must
be exercised by the Assessing Officer concerned;

The applicant deductor shall establish before the Assessing
Officer that:

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

it is case of genuine error and that the error had
occurred inadvertently;

that the TDS certificate for the refund amount
requested has not been issued to the deductee(s); and

that the credit for the excess amount has not been
claimed by the deductee(s) in the return of income or
the deductee(s) undertakes not to claim in excess of
Rupees One Lakh and Rupees Ten Lakh respectively.

After meeting any existing tax liability of the deductor,
the balance amount may be refunded to the deductor.

In view of provisions of section 200A of the Income-tax
Act prescribing processing of statement of TDS and issue
of refund with effect from 1-4-2010, this circular will be
applicable for claim of refunds for the period upto
31.3.2010.

58

CHAPTER-7

PENALTIES AND PROSECUTION

The various provisions of TDS as discussed in the preceding
chapters are statutorily required to be strictly complied with. Any
default in compliance can attract, levy of interest, penalty and in
certain cases initiation of prosecution proceedings. In this chapter,
a brief discussion of the possible defaults and the consequential
proceedings, is being done.

7.1 Failure to deduct tax - Where the employer has failed
to deduct tax or when short deduction of tax has been done, following
statutory provisions are attracted:-

a)

Charging of interest u/s 201(1A) - The deductor is
treated to be ‘assessee in default’ in respect of the short
deduction/non deduction of tax. Under Section 201(1A)
he is liable to pay simple interest @ 1% for every month
or part of a month on the amount of tax in arrear from
the date on which such tax was deductible to the date on
which such tax is actually deducted. Further such interest
shall be paid before furnishing the quarterly statement
of each quarter.

Charging of interest u/s201(1A) is mandatory and there
is no provision for its waiver.

Procedure for interest calculation : The calculation of interest
is to be done as per Rule 119A and is summarized below:

qd)

Where the interest is to be calculated for every month
or part of a month comprised in a period, any fraction of
a month shall be deemed to be full month and interest
shall be so calculated.

59
