issuance of a duplicate certificate and such duplicate
certificate is certified as duplicate by the deductor.

(6) (i) Where a certificate is to be furnished in Form No.
16, the deductor may, at his option, use digital
signatures to authenticate such certificates.

(ii) In case of certificates issued under clause (i), the
deductor shall ensure that

(a) the provisions of sub rule (2) are complied with;

(b) once the certificate is digitally signed, the contents
of the certificates are not amenable to change; and

(c) the certificates have a control number and a log of
such certificates is maintained by the deductor.

(7) Where a certificate is to be furnished for tax deducted
before the 1st day of April, 2010, it shall be furnished in
the Form in accordance with the provisions of the rules
as they stood immediately before their substitution by
the Income-tax( Amendment) Rules, 2010.

Explanation.

For the purpose of this rule and rule 37D, challan identification
number means the number comprising the Basic Statistical Returns
(BSR) Code of the Bank branch where the tax has been deposited,
the date on which the tax has been deposited and challan serial
number given by the bank.

4.4 TAX DEDUCTION AND COLLECTION
ACCOUNT NUMBER (TAN)

A person deducting tax at source, if not already allotted, a
TAN(or a tax collection account number) should apply for allotment
of TAN in Form No. 49B. The application has to be made in
duplicate to the Assessing Officer (AO) or to any particular
Assessing Officer where this duty is assigned by the Chief

36

Commissioner or the Commissioner to that A.O. The application
should be made within one month from the end of the month in
which the tax is deducted for the first time.

TAN should be quoted in all the TDS Certificates,
challans, quarterly statements, correspondence, etc. Non
compliance with the provision of Section 203A invites rigorous
imprisonment for a term not less than 3 months but which may
extend to 7 years and with a fine of Rs.10,000/-.

Reference Section 203 A, Rule 114 A; and Rule 114AA.

4.5 Time and mode of payment to Government
Account of Tax Collected under Sec. 206C

A new Rule 37 CA regarding time and mode of payment of
TCS has been introduced vide I.T.(6" Amendment) Rules, 2010.
This rule provides for the following :

(1) All sums collected in accordance with the provisions of
sub-section (1) or sub-section (1C) of section 206C by
an office of the Government shall be paid to the credit of
the Central Government -

(a) on the same day where the tax is so paid without
production of an income-tax challan; and

(b) on or before seven days from the end of the month in
which the collection is made, where tax is paid
accompanied by an income-tax challan.

(2) All sums collected in accordance with the provisions of
sub-section (1) or sub-section (1C) of section 206C by
collectors other than an office of the Government shall
be paid to the credit of the Central Government within
one week from the last day of the month in which the
collection is made.

37
