10.

> Label should be affixed on each CD/floppy mentioning
name of the deductor, his TAN, Form no. (24, 26 or 27)
and period to which the return pertains.

> There should be not any overwriting / striking on Form
27A. If there is any, then the same should be ratified by
an authorised signatory.

> No bank challan, copy of TDS certificate should be
furnished alongwith e-TDS return file.In case of Form
26 and 27, deductor need not furnish physical copies of
certificates of no deduction or lower deduction of TDS
received from deductees.

> Incase of Form 24 deductor should furnish physical
copies of certificates of ‘no deduction or deduction of
TDS at lower rate’, if any, received from deductees.

> e-TDS return file should contain TAN of the deductor
without which the return will not be accepted.

>  CD/floppy should be virus free.

In case any of these requirements are not met the e-TDS
return will not be accepted at TIN- FCs.

Can more than one e- TDS return of the same Deductor
be prepared in one CD/floppy?

No separate CD/floppy should be used for each return.
Where can the e-TDS return be filed?

e-TDS returns can be filed at any of the TIN-FC opened
by the e-TDS Intermediary for this purpose. Addresses of
these TIN-FCs are available at the website on
http://www.incometaxindia.gov.in or at www.tin-nsdl.com.

What are the basic details that should be included in
the e-TDS return?

Following information must be included in the e-TDS return

72

for successful acceptance. If any of these essential details is
missing, the returns will not be accepted at the TIN -
Facilitation Centres -

e Correct Tax deduction Account Number (TAN) of the
Deductor is clearly mentioned in Form No.27A as also
in the e-TDS return, as required by sub-section (2) of
section 203A of the Income-tax Act.

° The particulars relating to deposit of tax deducted at
source in the bank are correctly and properly filled in the
table at item No.6 of Form No.24 or item No.4 of Form
No.26 or item No.4 of Form No.27, as the case may be.

¢ The data structure of the e-TDS return is as per the
structure prescribed by the e-Filing Administrator.

¢ The Control Chart in Form 27A is duly filled in all columns
and verified and as enclosed in paper form with the e-
TDS return on computer media.

¢ The Control totals of the amount paid and the tax
deducted at source as mentioned at item No.4 of Form
No.27A tally with the corresponding totals in the e- TDS
return in Form No. 24 or Form No. 26 or Form No.27,
as the case may be.

11. What happens if any of the control total mentioned in

12.

Form 27A not match with that in the e-TDS return?

In such a case the e-TDS return will not be accepted at the
TIN Facilitation Centre.

What happens in a situation where a deductor does not
have TAN or has a TAN in old format?

The Deductor will have to file an application in Form 49B at
the TIN Facilitation Centre along with application fee
(Rs 50/-) for TAN.

73
