19.

20.

21.

How are the particulars of those employees who are
with the employer for a part of the year to be shown in
Form 24Q?

Where an employee has worked with a deductor for part of
the financial year only, the deductor should deduct tax at source
from his salary and report the same in the quarterly Form
24Q of the respective quarter(s) up to the date of employment
with him. Further, while submitting Form 24Q for the last
quarter, the deductor should include particulars of that employee
in Annexures II & II] irrespective of the fact that the employee
was not under his employment on the last day of the year.

Similarly, where an employee joins employment with the
deductor during the course of the financial year, his TDS
particulars should be reported by the current deductor in Form
24Q of the relevant quarter. Further, while submitting Form
24Q for the last quarter, the deductor should include particulars
of TDS of such employee for the actual period of employment
under him in Annexures II & III.

The manner of computing total income has been changed
by allowing deduction under section 80C. However, the
present Form 24Q shows a column for rebate under
section 88, 88B, 88C and 88D, how should Form 24Q
be filled up in absence of a column for section 80C?

While filling up Form 24Q, the columns pertaining to sections
88, 88B, 88C and 88D may be left blank. As regards deduction
under section 80C, the same can be shown in the column 342
pertaining to “Amount deductible under any other provision
of Chapter VI-A”.

Form 24Q shows a column which requires explanation
for lower deduction of tax. How can a DDO assess it?
Please clarify.

Certificate for lower deduction or no deduction of tax from
salary is given by the Assessing Officer on the basis of an

76

22.

23.

24.

25.

application made by the deductee. In cases where the
Assessing Officer has issued such a certificate to an employee,
deductor has to only mention whether no tax has been deducted
or tax has been deducted at lower rate on the basis of such a
certificate.

Can I file Form 26Q separately for contractors,
professionals, interest etc.?

No. A single Form 26Q with separate annexures for each
type of payment has to be filed for all payments made to residents.

From which financial year will the Annual Statement
under Sec. 203AA (Form No. 26AS) be issued?

The annual statement (Form No 26AS) will be issued for all
tax deducted and tax collected at source from F.Y 2008-09
onwards after the expiry of the financial year.

How will the PAN wise ledger account be created by
the intermediary i.e. NSDL in respect of payment of TDS
made by deductors in Banks.

The PAN wise ledger account will be created after matching
the information in the TDS/TCS returns filed by the deductor/
collector and the details of tax deposited in banks coming
through OLTAS.

What essential information will be required to be given
in the quarterly statement to enable accurate generation
of PAN wise ledger account?

The accuracy of PAN wise ledger account will depend on:-
¢ — Correct quoting of TAN by the deductor.

¢ — Correct quoting of PAN of deductor.

¢* — Correct and complete quoting of PAN of deductee.

¢* — Correct quoting of CIN (challan identification number)
wherever payment is made by challan.

77
