TDS is to be done at the time of credit of such income into
payee a/c or at the time of payment in cash or by cheque/draft or
any other mode, whichever is earlier.Credit in payer books to a
accounts called suspense a/c or by any other name shall be deemed
to be credited to payee a/c. However, in case where the rent paid/
credited does not exceed Rs. 1,20,000/-, no tax is deductible. This
limit has been enhanced to Rs. 1,80,000/- by Finance Act,
2010 w.e.f. 1.7.2010.

¢ Essential features of rent are following -

(i) Payment is made under any lease, sub-lease tenancy, or
any other agreement or arrangement.

(ii) Payment is made either for use of land or building
(including factory building) (together or separately) with
or without furniture, fittings & land appurtenant thereto.

(iii) Immaterial whether land or not of such building is owned
by the person to whom rent is paid.

(iv) Following points should be noted :

(a) If building is let out with furniture & fittings & rent
is payable under two separate agreements,
composite rent is subject to tax.

(b) Ifanon-refundable deposit is made by tenant, then
TDS is applicable.

(c) If refundable deposit is paid no TDS to be done,
but if deposit carries interest TDS on interest will
be governed by Sec 194A.

(d) If municipal taxes, ground rent etc. are borne by
tenant, no TDS on such sum is required.

(e) Hotel accommodation taken on regular basis by any
person other than Individual/HUF will be in the
nature of rent and TDS is to be done.

22

(f) Regimental fund or non-public fund established by
armed force since their income is exempt u/s 10
(23AA) no TDS u/s 193 & 194F from income of
such fund.

(g) No TDS, if payee is Government or local or
Statutory authorities referred to in section 10(20A)/
10(20).

(h) Payee can make application to the Assessing Officer
in Form 13 for a certificate in Form 15A for
deduction of tax at lower rate or to deduct no tax.

3.14 Fees for professional or technical services -
Sec. 194 J

TDS has to be done at the rate of 10% on payments made
to a resident, of fees for professional or technical services, of
royalty or any sum referred in clause (va) of Section 28 where
aggregate of such payment exceeds Rs.20,000/- in a financial year.
This limit is enhanced to Rs. 30,000/- w.e.f. 1/7/2010.

The aforesaid is not applicable to a payer who is an individual
or a HUF. But where the gross sales/turnover from business or
profession exceeds the monetary limit specified in section
44AB (Rs. 6,00,000/- for business or Rs. 15,00,000/- for profession)
then such individual /HUF is also required to deduct tax at source
as per provisions of this section. Payments made or credited before
1.7.95 are not covered by this provision.

What is Professional Service ?

Professional service means service rendered by a person in
the course of carrying on any of the following professions :
(a) Legal (b) Medical (c) Architectural (d) Engineering
(e) Profession of accountancy (f) Technical consultancy
(g) Interior Decoration (h) Advertising

23
