with substantial interest or payment by company and on behalf
of or, for benefit of such share-holder, to the extent of accumulated
profits.

Exemption (a) -Exemption from T.D.S. is granted in case
of a share-holder who is an individual and the company pays
dividend of Rs.2500/- or less in one financial year and it is paid
by account payee cheque(Form No.14 is submitted under Rule
28). (b) Further, if the Assessing Officer gives a certificate in
writing in prescribed form that total income of the share-holder is
below taxable limit then the person paying the dividend to share
holder is not to deduct tax at source (Form 15 under Rule 29). (c)
Further no TDS to be done in respect of dividends referred to in
Section 115-0.

3.3 Interest Income other than interest on securities -
Sec. 194A

The ‘Interest’ other than ‘Interest on Securities’ is subject to
tax deduction at source as per rates in force. However, an
individual or Hindu Undivided family is not obliged to deduct tax at
source. But, w.e.f. 1.6.2002, an HUF or an individual whose total
sales gross receipts or turnover from the business or profession,
carried on by him exceeded monetary limit specified in clause (a)
or clause (1) of section 44AB(Rs. 40 lakh) for business and Rs. 10
lakh for profession w.e.f. 1/4/2010(these limits will stand revised
at Rs. 60 lakhs and 15 lakhs respectively) are also liable to
deduct tax under this Section. However, any other person (i.e
company, firm, Association of person, Trust etc.) who is responsible
for paying Interest (other than ‘Interest of Securities’) is responsible
for deduction of tax at source. This tax is to be deducted, as usual,
at the time of credit of interest to the account of payee (i.e.
Assessee) or actual payment in cash or by issue of cheque,
draft, or any other mode of payment, whichever is earlier.
Even if the amount of interest is credited to any account whether
called “interest payable account” or “Suspense Account’, or by

12

any other name, in the books of the person who is paying such
income(i.e. “Payer” of the interest), these provisions of Section
194A will apply.

Exemption : Exemption from this section is allowed :

Gi) if interest, or aggregate of interest during
the financial year, does not exceed
Rs. 5000/-. However, where the payer is a
banking company, a co-operative society
engaged in the business of banking or a post
office the exemption limit shall be
Rs. 10,000 (applicable w.e.f. 1.6.2007).

(ii) Such interest income is credited or is paid to a
banking company or co-operative Society
engaged in banking or a Financial Corporation
or LIC, or UTI, or company or co-operative
society carrying on insurance business or any
other institution, association or body notified
by the Central Government in official Gazette
for reasons recorded in writing.

(iii) The interest is paid or credited by the firm to
its partner’s account

(iv) Interest income credited or paid by co-
operative society to its members account or
to another co-operative society.

(v) Interest income on deposits under any scheme
framed and notified in Gazette by Central
Government.

(vi) Income credited or paid in respect of deposits
other than time deposits, such time deposits
made on or after 1-7-1995, with banking
company including any bank nor banking

13
