(A) does not fall under any of the preceding sub-
clauses; and

(B)_ is liable to audit of accounts under clause (a)
or clause (b) of section 44 AB during the
financial year immediately preceding the
financial year in which such sum is credited
or paid to the account of the contractor;

(ii) ‘goods carriage’ shall have the meaning assigned to it in
the Explanation to sub-section(7) of the section 44AE;

(iii) ‘contract’ shall include sub-contract ;
(iv) ‘work’ shall include -
(a) advertising;

(b) broadcasting and telecasting including production
of programmes for such broadcasting or
telecasting ;

(c) carriage of goods or passengers by any mode of
transport other than by railways;

(d) catering ;

(e) manufacturing or supplying a product according to
the requirement or specification of a customer by
using material purchased from such customer, but
does not include manufacturing or supplying a
product according to the requirement or
specification of a customer by using material
purchased from a person, other than such customer.

3.7 Insurance commission - Section 194D.

Any person, who is responsible for paying to a resident any
remuneration or reward, whether called commission or by any other
name, for soliciting or procuring insurance business (including

18

continuance, renewal or revival of policies of insurance), is enjoined
upon to deduct tax at source at the time of credit of such income to
the account of the payee or at the time of payment thereof in cash
or by issue of a cheque or draft, whichever is earlier. Deduction
is to be done as per rates in force. However, if the aggregate of
such account, credited or paid during one financial year is
Rs.5000/- or less, than no tax is required to be deducted at source.
The Finance Act, 2010 has increased this exemption limit
to Rs. 20,000/- w.e.f. 1/7/2010.

3.8 Payments to Non-resident sportsmen or sports
association - Section 194E.

If a payment is to be made to a non-resident sportsmen
(including an athlete) who is not citizen of India or non resident
sports association and the income is covered by Section 115BBA,
then income-tax is to be deducted at source @ 10% of such
payment. Section 115BBA applies to any tax-payer (assessee)
who is not a citizen of India and who is a non-resident and income
is received, or receivable, for participation in India in any game or
sport or income from advertisement or income from contribution
or articles in Indian Newspapers, magazines and journals or a non-
resident sports association or institution which receives guarantee
money for games or sports played in India.

3.9 Payment in respect of National Saving Scheme -
Sec. 194EE

Where any payment is made by a person of an amount
referred to in clause (a) of sub section (2) of sec 80CCA, then
such person is required to deduct tax @20% there on at the
time of making such payment. The amount standing to the credit
of an assessee under National Saving Scheme, 1987 and the interest
accrued thereon is covered under this provision. However, in
following cases no tax is deductible:

19
