Where the amount of tax, which would have been evaded if
the statement or account had been accepted as true, is | lakh rupees
or less, then rigorous imprisonment may be from 3 months to three
years and with fine.

7.6 The Finance Act, 2008 has introduced amendment in section
201(w.e.f. 1.6.2002) which clarifies, that in case any employer,
or an principal officer of a company;

(a) does not deduct,or
(b) does not pay,

(c) or after so deducting fails to pay the whole or any part
of the tax,then such person shall be deemed to be an
assessee in default. Further, penalty to be charges
u/s 221 shall not be levied by the assessing officer unless
he is satisfied that such failure to deduct and pay tax
was without good and sufficient reasons.

62

CHAPTER-8

e-TDS & QUARTERLY STATEMENTS
OF TDS

8.1 Introduction :

e-TDS implies, filing of the TDS return in electronic media as
per prescribed data structure in either a floppy or a CD ROM.

The aforesaid requirement is essentially a part of the process
of automation of collection, compilation and processing of TDS
returns. Preparation of returns in electronic forms or e-TDS will
eventually be beneficial to the deductor by cutting down the return
preparation time, reducing the volume of documentation and thereby
economizing the compliance cost. At the same time, it will also
facilitate the Government in better co-relation of taxes deducted
with the taxes finally deposited in the banks and credits of TDS
claimed by the deductees.

8.2 Statutory Requirement of Preparation of e-TDS

As per proviso to section 206(2), w.e.f. 01/04/2005, a deductor
is required to prepare the return of TDS in electronic form. The
comprehensive scheme of e-TDS has been notified vide
Notification No. S.O. 974 (E) dated 26/08/2003. The present
statutory provisions mandate the Government and Corporate
deductors to file the TDS returns and statements in
electronic form with the designated e-TDS Intermediary
at any of the TIN facilitation centres. Further, where the
deductor is,

(a) Aperson required to get his accounts audited u/s 44 AB
in the immediately preceding FY. or

63
