Under what provision the e-TDS return should be filed?

An e-TDS return should be filed under Section 206 of the
Income Tax Act in accordance with the scheme dated 26.8.03
for electronic filing of TDS return notified by the CBDT for
this purpose. CBDT Circular No.8 dated 19.9.03 may also be
referred.

What are the forms to be used for filing annual/quarterly
TDS/TCS returns?

Following are the returns for TDS and TCS and their
periodicity:

Form No | Particulars Periodicity

Form 24 Annual return of “Salaries” Annual

under Section 206 of Income
Tax Act, 1961

Form 26 Annual return of deduction of tax | Annual

under section 206 of Income
Tax Act, 1961 in respect of all
payments other than “Salaries”

Form 27 Statement of deduction of tax Quarterly

from interest, dividend or any
other sum payable to certain
persons

Form 24Q | Quarterly statement for tax Quarterly

deducted at source from “Salaries”

Form 26Q | Quarterly statement of tax Quarterly

deducted at source in respect of
all payments other than “Salaries”

Form 27Q | Quarterly statement of deduction of

tax from interest, dividend or any | Quarterly
other sum payable to non-residents

70

Who is the e-Filing Administrator?

The CBDT has appointed the Director General of Income-
tax(Systems) as e- Filing Administrator for the purpose of the
Electronic Filing of Returns of Tax Deducted at Source
Scheme,2003.

Who is an e-TDS Intermediary?

CBDT has appointed National Securities Depository Ltd.,
Mumbai as e-TDS Intermediary.

How will the e-TDS returns be prepared?

e-TDS return has to be prepared in the data format issued
by e-Filing Administrator. This is available on the
websites of Income-tax Department at i.e.
http://www.incometaxindia.gov.in and of NSDL at
http://www.tin-nsdl.com. There is a validation software
available along with the data structure which should be used
to validate the data structure of the e-TDS return prepared.
The e TDS return should have following features:

> Each e-TDS return file (Form 24, 26 or 27) should be in
a separate CD/floppy.

> Each e-TDS return file should be accompanied by a duly
filled and signed (by an authorised signatory) Form 27A
in physical form.

> Each e-TDS return file should be in one CD/floppy. It
should not span across multiple floppies.

> Incase the size of an e-TDS return file exceeds the
capacity of one floppy, it should be furnished on a CD.

> Incase the e-TDS return file is in a compressed form at,
it should be compressed using Winzip 8.1 or ZipItFast
3.0 compression utility only to ensure quick and smooth
acceptance of the file.

71
