Chapter 3

PROVISIONS ENJOINING
DEDUCTION OF TAX AT SOURCE

3.1 Interest on securities — Sec. 193

Where any payment is made in the nature of “Interest on
Securities,” the person responsible for making such payment of
income or crediting the income has to make deduction of tax at
source before making such payment or crediting which ever is
earlier. The deduction is to be done as per rates in force on the
amount of interest payable. However, payments from certain
categories of bonds, debentures etc. is exempt from TDS. These
include the following :

i) National Defence Bonds 1972 (4.1/4%),

ia) National Defence Loan 1968, or National Defence
Loan1972 (4.3/4%),

ib) National Development Bonds,
ii) year (IV Issue) National Saving Certificates,

iii) Any interest payable on debentures issued by any
institution or authority or any Public Sector Company or
any Co-operative Land Mortgage Bank or Co-operative
Land Development Bank, as may notified by Central
Government in Gazette,

iv) Gold Bonds 1977 (6.1/2%), Gold Bonds 1980 (7%),

v) Interest on any Security of Central Government or
State Government,(However, w.e.f. 1.6.07 exemption
will not be available if interest payment exceeds
rupees ten thousand during the F.-Y. on 8% savings
(Taxable) Bonds, 2003.

10

vi) Any interest payable to an individual, resident of India,
on debentures issued by a Public Limited Company
where the debentures issued by a Public Limited
Company where the debentures are listed in a recognised
stock exchange, if the interest is paid by an account payee
cheque and its amount does not exceed Rs. 2500/- during
the financial year,

vii) Any interest payable to LIC,
viii) Any interest payable to GIC or any of its four companies,

ix) Any interest payable to any insurer in respect of any
securities owned by it or in which it has full beneficial
interest. No TDS to be made from any Regimental Fund
or non-public fund established by any Armed forces since
income of these organizations is exempt u/s 10(23AA).

3.2 Dividend income(Sec. 194)

Where any amount is payable in the nature of “Dividends”
by an Indian Company or a Company that has made
arrangement for declaration and payment of dividend within
India (including dividend on preference shares ) the said company
has to deduct tax at source. The deduction has to be done as per
rates in force before the payment is made in cash or issue of cheque
or dividend warrant or before making any distribution or payment
to the share holder of any dividend u/s 2(22).

Sec. 2(22) defines dividends as including inter alia distribution
by acompany to its share-holder of various sums like accumulated
profits (whether Capitalized or not) by realizing all or part of
company’s assets or debentures, debenture stock deposit
certificates, or bonus shares to preference share-holders to the
extent of accumulated profits, or payments by a Private Limited
Company of any advance or loan to a share-holder being beneficial
owner holding not less than 10% of voting power, or loan or advance
to a concern in which such _ share- holder is a member or partner

11
