B. Mode of payment

(4)

(a)

(b)

(5)

(6)

In the case of an office of the Government, where tax
has been paid to the credit of the Central Government
without the production of a challan, the Pay and Accounts
Officer or the Treasury Officer or the Cheque Drawing
and Disbursing Officer or any other person by whatever
name called to whom the deductor reports the tax so
deducted and who is responsible for crediting such sum
to the credit of the Central Government, shall-

Submit a statement in Form No. 24G within ten days
from the end of the month to the agency authorised by
the Director General of Income tax (Systems) in respect
of tax deducted by the deductors and reported to him for
that month; and

Intimate the number (hereinafter referred to as the Book
Identification Number) generated by the agency to each
of the deductors in respect of whom the sum deducted
has been credited.

For the purpose of sub rule (4), the Director General of
Income-tax (Systems) shall specify the procedures,
formats and standards for ensuring secure capture and
transmission of data, and shall also be responsible for
the day to day administration in relation to furnishing the
information in the manner so specified.

(i) Where tax has been deposited accompanied by an
income-tax challan, the amount of tax so deducted or
collected shall be deposited to the credit of the Central
Government by remitting it within the time specified in
clause (b) of Sub-rule (1) or in sub rule (2) or in sub rule
(3) into any branch of the Reserve Bank of India or of
the State Bank of India or of any authorised bank;

32

(ii) Where tax is to be deposited in accordance with clause
(i), by persons referred to in sub-rule (1) of rule 125, the
amount deducted shall be electronically remitted into the
Reserve Bank of India or the State Bank of India or any
authorised bank accompanied by an electronic income
tax challan.

(7) For the purpose of this rule, the amount shall be construed
as electronically remitted to the Reserve Bank of India
or to the State Bank of India or to any authorised bank,
if the amount is remitted by way of -

a) Internet banking facility of the Reserve Bank of
India or of the State Bank of India or of any
authorised bank; or

(b) debit card.

(8) Where tax is deducted before the Ist day of April, 2010,
the provisions of this rule shall apply as they stood
immediately before their substitution by the Income-tax
( Amendment) Rules, 2010.

4.2 Credit of TDS

Where taxes have been deducted at source from any payment
of income receivable by an assessee, the amount of tax deducted
at source would be included in the income of the assessee while
computing the income of the assessee and would be deemed to
be the income received (S.198). Further credit will be given to the
assessee while calculating the net tax payable by him and the tax
deducted at source will be treated as a payment of tax on his behalf
(i.e. to the Central Government by the payer who has deducted the
tax at source (S.199)).

4.3 TDS Certificate :

A certificate is prescribed u/s 203, which is to be issued by
person deducting tax at source. Every person deducting tax is duty

33
