(a)
(b)

(c)

(d)

(3)

(4)

(5)

valid permanent account number (PAN) of the collectee;

valid tax deduction and collection account number (TAN)
of the collector;

(i) book identification number or numbers where
deposit of tax collected is without production of
challan in case of an office of the Government;

(ii) challan identification number or numbers in case of
payment through bank;

receipt number of the relevant quarterly statement of
tax collected at source which is furnished in accordance
with the provisions of rule 31AA.

The certificate in the Form No. 27D referred to in sub
rule (1) shall be furnished to the collectee within fifteen
days from the due date for furnishing the statement of
tax collected at source specified under sub-rule (2) of
tule 31AA.

The collector may issue a duplicate certificate in Form
No. 27D if the collectee has lost the original certificate
so issued and makes a request for issuance of a duplicate
certificate and such duplicate certificate is certified as
duplicate by the collector.

Where a certificate is to be furnished for tax collected
before the 1st day of April, 2010, it shall be furnished in
the Form in accordance with the provisions of the rules
as they stood immediately before their substitution by
the Income-tax ( Amendment) Rules, 2010.

40

Chapter 5

DUTIES OF PERSON DEDUCTING
TAX AT SOURCE AND RIGHTS OF
TAX PAYERS

5.1 Deduct Tax at Correct Rate and deposit in
Government Account — Sec. 200

Every person responsible for deducting tax at source shall at
the time of payment or credit of income, whichever is earlier, verify
whether the payment being made is to be subject to deduction of
tax at source. If it is so, he must deduct such tax as per the prescribed
rates. Further he is required to deposit such tax deducted in the
Central Government Account within the prescribed time as specified
in Rule 30.

5.2 Issue a TDS certificate

Further, such person is required to issue a certificate of tax
deduction at source u/s 203 to the person from whose income the
TDS has been done, in the prescribed proforma i.e. Form No.16A
within prescribed time(as discussed earlier).

5.3 File Prescribed Return/Quarterly Statement

A return of TDS is a comprehensive statement containing
details of payments made and taxes deducted thereon along with
other prescribed details. For deductions made prior to
01.04.2005 earlier every deductor was required as per the
provisions of Section 206 (read with Rule 36A and 37) to prepare
and deliver an annual return, of tax deducted at source. However
w.e.f. 01.04.2005 there is no requirement to file annual
returns and instead Quarterly statements of T.D.S. are to

41
