liability, then the employer can accordingly reduce the quantum
of TDS.
2.5.5 Deduction at a lower rate or non-deduction
of tax

Section 197 enables a tax payer to make an application to his
Assessing Officer for deduction of tax at a lower rate or non
deduction of tax.
The application has to be made in Form No.13
(Rule 28AA).
If the Assessing Officer is satisfied that the total
income of a tax payer justifies the deduction of income tax at any
lower rate or no deduction of income tax, he may issue a certificate
in Form No.
15AA (relevant Rule 28AA) providing for deduction
of tax at lower rate or no deduction of tax.
The certificate is valid only for the assessment year as specified
therein.
On expiry of the validity period, a fresh application may be
made.
A certificate is issued directly to the person responsible for
deducting tax/DDO with a copy to the applicant.
In absence of
such a certificate from the employee, the employer should deduct
income tax on salary payable at normal rates (Circular No.
147 dt.
28-10-1974).
w.e.f 1.4.2011 vide Income-tax (Second Amendment) Rules
2011 the following provisions have been incorporated in Rule
28AA pertaining to issue of TDS certificate u/s 197

(1) Where the Assessing Officer, on an application made by a
person under sub-rule (1) of rule 28 is satisfied that existing
and estimated tax liability of a person justifies the deduction
of tax at lower rate or no deduction of tax, as the case
may be, the Assessing Officer shall issue a certificate in
accordance with the provisions of sub-section (1) of section
197 for deduction of tax at such lower rate or no deduction
of tax.
(2) The existing and estimated liability referred to in sub-rule (1)
shall be determined by the Assessing Officer after taking
into consideration the following:-

(i) tax payable on estimated income of the previous year
relevant to the assessment year;

(ii) tax payable on the assessed or returned income, as the
case may be, of the last three previous years;

(iii) existing liability under the Income-tax Act,1961 and
Wealth-tax Act, 1957;

(iv) advance tax payment for the assessment year relevant
to the previous year till the date of making application
under sub-rule (1) of rule 28;

(v) tax deducted at source for the assessment year relevant
to the previous year till the date of making application
under sub-rule (1) of rule 28; and

(vi) tax collected at source for the assessment year relevant
to the previous year till the date of making application
under sub-rule (1) of rule 28.
(3) The certificate shall be valid for such period of the previous
year as may be specified in the certificate, unless it is cancelled
by the Assessing Officer at any time before the expiry of the
specified period.
(4) The certificate shall be valid only with regard to the person
responsible for deducting the tax and named therein.
(5) The certificate shall be issued direct to the person
responsible for deducting the tax under advice to the person
who made an application for issue of such certificate.
2.5.6 TDS where the salary paid is net of tax

Where the employee enters into an agreement or an
arrangement as per which the tax chargeable on the income is