8.7 Certain exempt incomes and allowance:

@

Gi)

iii)

Any allowance or perquisite paid or allowed as such
outside India by the Central Government or a State
Government to a citizen of India for rendering service
outside India, is exempt from Income-tax.
The relevant
provisions are contained in section 10(7) of the Income
Tax Act.
In case of individuals who are assigned to duties in India
in connection with any cooperative technical assistance
programmes and projects, in accordance with an
agreement between the Central Government and the
Government of a foreign state, their foreign income is
exempt from income-tax if they pay any income or social
security tax on such income to the foreign state.
To
qualify for the exemption, such income should not be
deemed to have accrued or arisen in India.
Further, the
terms of the agreement between the two governments
must provide for such exemption.
The relevant provisions
of this exemption are contained in section 10(8) of the
Income-tax Act.
Income-tax exemption on the aforesaid lines has also
been provided on the foreign income of an individual who
is assigned to duties in India in connection with any
technical assistance programme and project in
accordance with an agreement entered into by the Central
Government and international organization.
The
exemption is availability only if the following conditions
are satisfied, namely :

(a) the individual is an employee of the consultant
referred to in section 10(8A) which provides that a
consultant means a person engaged by an

70

(iv)

(v)

international organization in connection with any
technical assistance programme in accordance with
an agreement between that organization and the
Central Government;

(b) he is either not a citizen of India or being a citizen
of India, is not ordinarily resident in India; and

(c) the contract of service of the individual is approved
by the Additional Secretary, Department of
Economic Affairs, in the Ministry of Finance,
Government of India in concurrence with Member
(Income-tax) of the Board.
The relevant provisions of this exemption are
contained in Section 10(8B) of the Income-tax Act.
The United Nations (Privileges and Immunities) Act, 1947,
provides exemption from Income-tax on the salaries and
emoluments paid by the United Nations to its officials.
Thus, the individuals who are resident in India in any
financial year and are in receipt of income by way of
salaries and emoluments from the United Nations as
officials thereof, are exempt from income tax on such
income.
As the expression "salaries" under the Income-
tax Act includes pension also, the pension received from
the United Nations by its former officials, is also exempt
from income-tax.
Under section 3 of the United Nations (privileges and
Immunities) Act, 1947, the Central Government has the
power to extend the benefit of the Income-tax exemption
to the officers of other international organizations on the
lines of such exemption to U.N. officials.
The benefit of
Income-tax exemption has been extended to the

71