be the actual cost to the employer as reduced by the amount
paid by the employee in respect of such services.
(Cost to the
employer in respect of the above will be the salary paid/payable)
[Rule 3(3)].
3.3.4 Perquisite arising out of supply of gas, electric
energy or water - This shall be determined as the amount paid
by the employer to the agency supplying the same.
If the supply
is from the employer’s own resources, the value of the perquisite
would be the manufacturing cost per unit incurred by the employer.
[Rule 3(4)].
3.3.5 Free/Concessional Educational Facility - Value
of the perquisite would be the expenditure incurred by the
employer.
If the educational institution is maintained & owned
by the employer, the value would be nil if the value of the benefit
per child is below Rs.
1000/- P.M. or else the reasonable cost
of such education in a similar institution in or near the locality
[Rule 3(5)].
3.3.6 Free/Concessional journeys provided by an
undertaking engaged in carriage or passengers or
goods Rule 3(6)- The value of perquisite is the value at
which such benefit or such amenity is offered by such employer
to the public as reduced by the amount, if any, paid or recovered
from the employer for such benefit or amenity.
However, the
aforesaid will not be applicable to employer of an airline or
railways.
3.3.7 Value of certain other benefits :-

(a) Interest free/concessional loans - The value of the
perquisite shall be the excess of interest payable at the
prescribed interest rate over, interest, if any, actually paid by

34

(b)

(d)

(e)

the employee or any member of his household.
The prescribed
interest rate would be the rate charged by State Bank of India
as on the 1 Day of the relevant Financial Year in respect of
loans of the same type and for same purpose advanced by it
to general public.
Perquisite is to be calculated on the basis
of the maximum outstanding monthly balance method.
However, loans upto Rs.
20,000/-, loans for medical treatment
specified in Rule 3A are exempt, provided the same are not
reimbursed under medical insurance.
[Rule 3 (7) (iii)(i)]

Value of free meals and non alcoholic beverages - The
value of perquisite is the cost to the employer as reduced by
the amount paid or recovered from employee.
However
aforesaid will not apply to free food or food vouchers to used
during working however with value not encoding Rs.
50/- per
meal.
[Rule 3 (7) (iii)]

Value of gift or voucher or token - Perquisite is the sum
equal to the amount of such gift.
However, where the value
of such gifts and voucher is below Rs.
5000/- in aggregate
during the previous year, the perquisite shall be nil.
[Rule 3

(7) (iv)]

Credit Card provided by the employer - The perquisite is
the amount of expenses incurred (including membership fee
annual fee etc.
as reduced by the amount recovered from the
employee.
However, the perquisite shall be nil if the expenses
on credit card are incurred wholly and exclusively for official
purposes, details of which are maintained and employer
certifies it to be for official purposes.
[Rule 3 (7) (v)]

Club membership provided by the employer - The
perquisite is the amount of expenditure incurred or reimbursed
by the employer for the membership/annual/or any expenditure,
with reference to club membership as reduced by the amount

35