received or receivable, no exemption under this clause shall
be allowed to him in relation to such or other Assessment
Year.
5.2.7 Payment from Provident Fund: Any payment
received from a Statutory Provident Fund, (i.e., to which the
Provident Fund Act, 1925 applies) is exempt.
Any payment from
any other provident fund notified by the Central Government is
also exempt.
The Public Provident Fund (PPF) established under
the PPF Scheme, 1968 has been notified for this purpose.
Besides the above, the accumulated balance due and becoming
payable to an employee participating in a Recognised Provident
Fund is also exempt to the extent provided in Rule 8 of Part A
of the Fourth Schedule of the Income tax Act.
5.2.8 Payment from approved Superannuation Fund:
Payment from an approved superannuation fund will be exempt
provided the payment is made in the circumstances specified in
the Section viz., death, retirement and incapacitation.
5.2.9 Deposit scheme for retired Govt./Public Sector
Company employees: Section 10(15) of the Income Tax
Act incorporates a number of investments, the interest income
from which is totally exempt from taxation.
These investments
may be considered as one of the options for investing various
benefits received on retirement.
One among them, notified u/s
10(15)(iv)(i), is the ‘Deposit scheme for retired govt./public
sector company employees’.
W.e.f.
assessment year 1990-91,
the interest on deposits made under this scheme by an employee
of Central/State Govt.
out of the various retirement benefits
received is exempt from income tax.
This exemption was
subsequently extended to employees of public sector companies
from assessment year 1991-92 vide notification No.
2/19/89-NS-
II dated 12.12.1990.
50

CHAPTER-6
DEDUCTIONS UNDER

CHAPTER VI-A

6.1 Introduction : The Income Tax Act provides for
allowability of certain deductions from the gross total income of
the assessee.
These deductions are given in Chapter VIA of the
Income Tax Act.
For the purpose of TDS, the employer/DDO
may allow some of these deductions to the employee on
furnishing of the required particulars.
The deductions allowable
by the DDO/employer are being described below:

6.2 Eligible deductions u/s.
80C: As per Section 80C the
following investments/payments are eligible for deduction.
NATURE OF INVESTMENT REMARKS

Life Insurance Premium For individual, policy must be in
self or spouse’s or any child’s
name.
For HUF, it may be on life
of any member of HUF.
Sum paid under contract for] For individual, on life of self,
deferred annuity spouse or any child

Sum deducted from salary payable | Payment limited to 20% of salary.
to Govt.
Servant for securing
deferred annuity for self, spouse
or child

Contribution made under —
Employee’s Provident Fund
Scheme to which Provident Funds
Act 1975 (19 of 1925 applies)

51