It has to be noted that only the expenditure actually incurred
on payment of rent in respect of residential accommodation
occupied by the assessee subject to the limits laid down in rule
2A, qualifies for exemption from income-tax.
Thus, house rent
allowance granted to an employee who is residing in a house/flat
owned by him is not exempt from income-tax.
The disbursing
authorities should satisfy themselves in this regard by insisting on
production of evidence of actual payment of rent before
excluding the house rent allowance or any portion thereof from
the total income of the employee.
Though incurring actual
expenditure on payment of rent is a prerequisite for claiming
deduction under section 10(13A), it has been decided as an
administrative measure that salaried employees drawing house
rent allowance upto Rs.
3,000 per month will be exempted from
production of rent receipt.
It may, however, be noted that this
concession is only for the purpose of tax deduction at source,
and, in the regular assessment of the employee, the Assessing
Officer will be free to make such inquiry as he deems fit for the
purpose of satisfying himself that the employee has incurred
actual expenditure on payment of rent.
(iii) Allowances exempt u/s 10(14):- Certain allowances
given by the employer to the employee are exempt u/s
10(14).
W.e.f.
1-7-1995, all these exempt allowance are
detailed in Rule 2BB of Income Tax Rules and are briefly
given below:

(i) Allowance granted to meet cost of travel on tour or
transfer.
(ii) Allowance granted on tour or journey in connection
with transfer to meet the daily charges incurred by the
employee.
40

(iii) Allowance granted to meet conveyance expense incurred
in performance of duty, provided no free conveyance is
provided.
(iv) Allowance granted to meet expenses incurred on a
helper engaged for performance of official duty.
(v) Academic, research or training allowance granted in
educational or research institutions.
(vi) Uniform purchase or maintenance allowance.
(vii) Other allowances as prescribed in Rule 2BB(2) for the
purpose of Section 10(14)(ii).
3.4.3 Perquisites exempt from Income Tax : Some
instances of perquisites exempt from tax are given below :

I) _ Provision of medical facilities (proviso to Sec.
17(2): Value
of medical treatment in any hospital maintained by the
Government or any local authority or by the employer or
approved by the Chief Commissioner of Income Tax.
Besides, any sum paid by the employer towards medical
reimbursement other than as discussed above is exempt
upto Rs.
15,000/-.
Il) Perquisites allowed outside India by the Government to a
citizen of India for rendering services outside India
(Sec.
10(7)).
Il) Rent free official residence provided to a Judge of High
Court or Supreme Court or an Officer of Parliament, Union
Minister or Leader of Opposition.
IV

YY

No perquisite shall arise if interest free/concessional loans
are made available for medical treatment of specified

41