additional information such as the version no.
of FVU has to be
filed with TIN FC.
This is a file which is generated by the FYU
after the return /file prepared by the Return Preparation Utility
(RPU) is validated using the FYU.
35.
By whom should the control chart Form 27A be signed?
Form 27A is the summary of the TDS return.
It has to be
signed by the same person who is authorized to sign the TDS return
in paper format.
36.
What are the Control Totals appearing in the Error /
response File generated by validating the text file through
File Validation Utility (FVU) of NSDL?
The Control Totals in Error response File are generated only
when a valid file is generated.
Otherwise, the file shows the kind
of errors.
The control totals are as under:

» No.
of deductee/party records: In case of Form 24Q, it
is equal to the number of employees for which TDS return
is being prepared.
In case of Form 26/27, it is equal to
the total number of records of tax deduction.
10 payments
to 1 party would mean 10 deductee records.
» Amount Paid: This is the Total Amount of all payments
made on which tax was deducted.
In case of Form 24Q,
it is equal to the Total Taxable Income of all the
employees.
In case of Form 26/27, Amount Paid is equal
to the total of all the amounts on which tax has been
deducted at source.
» Tax Deducted: This is the Total Amount of Tax actually
Deducted at source for all payments.
» — Tax deposited: This is the total of all the deposit challans.
This is normally the same as Tax Deducted but at times
may be different due to interest or other amount.
90

37.
Are the control totals appearing in Form 27A same as
that of Error/ response File?
Yes, the control totals in Form 27A and in Error/ response File
are same.
38.
What if e-TDS return does not contain PANs of all
deductees?
In case PANs of some of the deductees are not mentioned in
the e-TDS return, the Provisional Receipt will mention the count of
missing PANs in the e-TDS return.
The details of missing PANs
(extent it can be collected from the deductees) may be furnished
within seven days of the date of Provisional Receipt to TIN- FC.
e-TDS return will be accepted even with missing PANs.
However,
if PAN of deductees is not given in the TDS return, tax deducted
from payment made to him cannot be posted to the statement of
TDS to be issued to him u/s 203AA.
39.
Is the bank challan number compulsory?
Yes.
Challan identification number is necessary for all non
government deductors.
40.
Will the quarterly paper returns be accepted by the
Income tax department?
No.
All quarterly paper TDS/TCS returns will be received at
TIN-FCs

41.
Is PAN mandatory for deductor and employees/
deductees?
PAN of the deductors has to be given by non government
deductors.
It is essential to quote PAN of all deductees failing which
credit of tax deducted will not be given.
91