case the estimated income for the whole year is above
the threshold limit.
» In case the estimated income for the whole year of an
employee after allowing deduction for various savings
like PPF, GPF, NSC etc.
comes below the taxable limit,
his particulars need not be included in Form 24Q.
» In case due to some reason estimated annual income
of an employee exceeds the exemption limit during the
course of the year, tax should be deducted in that
quarter and his particulars reported in Form 24Q from
that quarter onwards.
21.
How are the particulars of those employees who are
with the employer for a part of the year to be shown in
Form 24Q?
» Where an employee has worked with a deductor for
part of the financial year only, the deductor should
deduct tax at source from his salary and report the
same in the quarterly Form 24Q of the respective
quarter(s) up to the date of employment with him.
Further, while submitting Form 24Q for the last quarter,
the deductor should include particulars of that employee
in Annexure II & III irrespective of the fact that the
employee was not under his employment on the last
day of the year.
» Similarly, where an employee joins employment with the
deductor during the course of the financial year, his TDS
particulars should be reported by the current deductor in
Form 24Q of the relevant quarter.
Further, while submitting
Form 24Q for the last quarter, the deductor should include
particulars of TDS of such employee for the actual period
of employment under him in Annexure II and III.
86

22.
The manner of computing total income has been changed
by allowing deduction under section 80C.
However,the
present form 24Q shows a column for rebate under section
88, 88B, 88C and 88D.
How should form 27Q be filled up in
absence of a column for section 80C ?
While filling up form 24Q the columns pertaining to sections
88, 88B, 88C and 88D may be left blank.
As regards deduction
under section 80C, the same can be shown in the column 342
pertaining to "Amount deductible under any other provision of
Chapter VI-A".
23.
Form 24Q shows a column which requires explanation
for lower deduction of tax.
How can a DDO assess it?
Please
clarify.
Certificate for lower deduction or no deduction of tax from
salary is given by the Assessing Officer on the basis of an application
made by the deductee.
In cases where the Assessing Officer has
issued such a certificate to an employee, deductor has to only
mention whether no tax has been deducted or tax has been deducted
at lower rate on the basis of such a certificate.
24.
Can I file Form 26Q separately for contractors,
professionals, interest etc.?
No.
A single Form 26Q with separate annexures for each
type of payment has to be filed for all payments made to
residents.
25.
From which financial year will the Annual Statement under
Sec.
203AA (Form No.
26AS) be issued?
The annual statement (Form No 26AS) will be issued for all
tax deducted and tax collected at source from F.Y 2008-09 onwards
after the expiry of the financial year.
87