TAX DEDUCTION AND COLLECTION ACCOUNT
NUMBER

2.9 Introduction: T.A.N.
or tax deduction and collection
account number is a unique number alloted to the deductor/
collector of tax at source for the purpose of identification of
every deductor.
2.9.1 Who shall apply for TAN: Every person deducting
tax at source is required as per Section 203(A) to apply to the
assessing officer for allotment of TAN.
The application has to be
made in duplicate in form 49B (Rule 114A).
Such application has
to be either furnished to the Assesssing Officer (AO) specifically
assigned the function of allotment of TAN by the CCIT/CIT or
in any other case to the AO having jurisdiction to assess the
applicant.
2.9.2 Responsibility to quote TAN: Section 203(A)(2)
casts a statutory responsibility on the deductor to quote TAN in
the following places once it has been alloted :-

G) In all challans for the payment of any sum in accordance
with the provisions of Section 200

(i) In all certificates issued pertaining to deduction of tax in
accordance with the provisions of Section 203

(iii) In all statements submitted in accordance with the provisions
of sub section (3) of section 200 (quarterly statements).
(iv) In all returns filed pertaining to deduction of tax at source
in accordance with the provisions of Section 206.
(v) In all other documents pertaining to such transactions as
may be prescribed in the interest of revenue.
26

2.9.3 QUOTING OF PAN BY EMPLOYER/
DEDUCTOR - The deductor of tax at source is required as
per section 139A(5B) to quote the PAN of the person from
whose income TDS has been done in ;

(a) Statement furnished u/s 192(2C) (statement of particulars of
profit in lieu of salary).
(b) Certificate furnished u/s 203 (TDS Certificate).
(c) Return of TDS prepared & delivered u/s 206.
(d) In all statements submitted in accordance with the provisions
of sub section (3) of section 200 (quarterly statements).
2.9.4 Requirement to furnish Permanent Account
Number.
The Finance Act, 2010 has introduced sec.
206AA(w.e.f.
1/4/2010) requiring the deductee to quote his PAN, failing which,
tax at a higher rate shall be deducted.
It provides the following :

(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other
provisions of this Act, any person entitled to receive any
sum or amount, on which tax is deductible under Chapter
XVIIB(hereafter referred to as deductee) shall furnish his
Permanent Account Number to the person responsible for
deducting such tax(hereafter referred to as deductor),
failing which tax shall be deducted at the higher of the
following rates, namely-

(i) at the rate specified in the relevant provision of this
Act; or

(ii) at the rate or rates in force; or

(iii) at the rate of twenty per cent.
27