6.7.2 W.e.f.
1.6.89, u/s.
89(1) relief can be granted at the time
of TDS by employers in the following conditions :

(1) If the employee is a Government Servant.
(2) He is employee in a (a) PSU, (b) Company, (c)
Cooperative, (d) Local Authority, (e) 7University, (f)
Institution or Body.
The employee may furnish to the DDO or the person
responsible for making payment such particulars in Form 10E
(read with Rule 21AA) which should be duly verified by him.
Thereupon the DDO/Person responsible for making payment is
required to compute the relief u/s 89(1) on the basis of such
particulars and take into account this relief while making tax
deduction u/s 192.
In case of an employee of category other than
the stated above, such relief can only be allowed by the
Assessing Officer.
?
University means a university established or incorporated by or under state
central or provincial act and includes an institution declared u/s 3 of the U.GC.
Act 1956.
62

CHAPTER-7
PENALTIES AND PROSECUTION

The various provisions of TDS as discussed in the preceding
chapters are statutorily required to be strictly complied with.
Any
default in compliance can attract, levy of interest, penalty and in
certain cases initiation of prosecution proceedings.
In this chapter
a brief discussion of the possible defaults and the consequential
proceedings is being done.
7.1 Failure to deduct tax - Where the employer has failed to
deduct tax or when short deduction of tax has been done, following
statutory provisions are attracted:-

a) Charging of interest u/s 201(1A) - The deductor is
treated to be ‘assessee in default’ in respect of the short deduction/
non deduction of tax.
Under Section 201(1A) he is liable to pay
simple interest @ 1% for every month or part of a month on the
amount of tax in arrear from the date on which such tax was
deductible to the date on which such tax is actually deducted.
Further
such interest shall be paid before furnishing the quarterly statement
of each quarter.
Charging of interest u/s 201(1A) is mandatory and there is no
provision for its waiver.
Procedure for interest calculation : The calculation of
interest is to be done as per Rule 119A and is summarized below:

(i) Where the interest is to be calculated for every month or
part of a month comprised in a period, any fraction of a
month shall be deemed to be full month and interest shall be
so calculated.
(ii) The amount of tax in respect of which interest is to be calculated
is to be rounded off to nearest multiple of Rs.
100 ignoring any
fraction of Rs.
100.
63