(8) 1/12th of this total tax payable is to be deducted every
month by the employer.
3.2.1 What is “salary”’- Salary is said to be the remuneration
received by or accruing to an individual for service rendered as
a result of an express or implied contract.
The statute, gives an
inclusive but not exhaustive definition of salary.
As per sec.
17(1), salary includes therein (i) Wages (ii) Annuity or pension
(iii) Gratuity (iv) fees, commission, perquisites or profits in lieu of
salary (v) Advance salary (vi) Receipt from provident fund
(vii) Contribution of employer to a recongnised provident fund
in excess of prescribed limit (viii) Leave encashment
(ix) compensation as a result of variation of service contract etc.
(x) Government contribution to a pension scheme.
3.2.2 Exceptions to salary income: The existence of an
“employer-employee’ relationship is a must for a payment to be
taxed under the head salaries.
Accordingly, the following classes
of payments do not fall under the purview of the head ‘salary’

(i) Salary received by a partner from his partnership
firm carrying on business - This income is taxable under
the head “profits and gains of business and profession”.
(ii) Salary received by a person as MP or MLA- This
income is taxable under the head “income from other
sources”.
However, the salary received by a person as a
Minister of Central Government/State Government is
chargeable under the head salaries.
(iii) Family pension that is pension received by the
members of the family of an employee subsequent to
his death - This is taxable under the head “income from
other sources”.
However, the pension received by an
employee from his former employer is taxable under the
head salaries.
30

3.3.
Valuation of Perquisites: The taxable value of
perquisites in the hands of the employee is normally taken to be
its cost to the employer.
However, there are specific rules for
valuation of certain perquisites laid down in Rule 3 of the LT.
Rules, which have been revised vide I.T.
(thirteenth Amendment)
Rules 2009 w.e.f.
1/4/2010 (vide notification 2/2009 dt.
12/1/
2010- F. No.142/25/2009- SO(TPL)).
Rule 3 now provides that
the value of perquisite provided by the employer directly to the
assessee (employee) or to any member of his household by
reason of his employment is to be determined in accordance of
the sub rules which are briefly given below.
3.3.1 Valuation of residential accommodation
provided by the employer (Rule 3(1)):-

(a) Union or State Government Employees - The value of
perquisite is the license fee as determined by the Central or
the State Government as reduced by the rent actually paid
by the employee.
(b) Non-Govt.
Employees-

(a) Where the accommodation is owned by the employer
the perquisite is
(i) 15% of salary in cities having population exceeding
25 lakhs as per 2001 census ;

(ii) 10% of salary in cities having population exceeding
10 lakhs but not exceeding 25 lakhs as per 2001
census ;

(iii) 7.5% of salary in other areas.
Or

(b) Where the accommodation is taken on lease by the
employer the perquisite is the actual amount of lease

31