Then such deductors are also required to furnish the quarterly
statements electronically.
However, for the other deductors filing
of e-TDS is optional.
9.3 e-Administrator, e-Intermediary, TIN Facilitation
Centres

For the purpose of administering the scheme of e-TDS, the
Central Board of Direct Taxes has appointed Director-General of
Income-tax (Systems) as the e-Filing Administrator.
The e-TDS
return is mandatorily to be prepared in data format issued by the
e- Administrator.
The e-Returns are to be submitted at Centres referred is
TIN Facilitation Centres (or TIN FCs) which have been opened
by National Security Depository Ltd. (NSDL) which has also been
designated as e-Intermediary.
9.4 Data Structure of e-TDS, Procedure for filing

The e-TDS return has to be prepared in the data format issued
by the e-Filing Administrator.
This format/software is available on
the website of the Income-tax Department at http:\\
www.incometaxindia.gov.in and that of NSDL at http:\\ www.tin-
nsdl.com.
There is also a validation software which is available along
with the data structure.
This is required to be used to validate the
data structure of the e-TDS return prepared.
Each e-TDS return
filed should also be accompanied by a control chart which should
be in the newly prescribed form 27 A.
The same has to be duly
signed by the deductor and submitted alongwith e-TDS to the e-
Intermediary.
The following specific points must also be noted in
filing of e-TDS returns.
(a) Reformatted TAN : All deductors required to e-File TDS
returns have to quote their reformatted Tax Deduction Account

74

Number (TAN) in their respective TDS returns.
Wherever,
reformatted TANs have not been allotted, application in form
49 B should be filed with NSDL for obtaining the same.
(b) Each e-TDS return file should be in a separate CD or floppy
and should not span across multiple floppies.
Further, label
must be affixed on each CD/floppy mentioning the name of
the deductor, his stamp, form number and the period to which
the return pertains.
(c) There should not be any overwriting, striking on form 27 A
and if there is, then the same should be ratified by the
authorized signatory.
Further if any of the controlled totals
mentioned in form No.
27 A (control chart) does not match
with that in the e-TDS return, then such returns will not be
accepted at the TIN Facilitation Centres.
(d) While filing form no.
24, deductor should furnish physical copies
of certificates of no deduction or deduction at a lower rate of
TDS, if any, received from the deductees.
(e) No bank challan, copy of TDS certificate should be furnished
alongwith e-TDS return filed.
The e-TDS prepared by the deductor has to be submitted at
the TIN Facilitation Centres opened by NSDL which is the e-TDS
Intermediary.
The addresses of the TIN Facilitation Centres are
available at websites of Income-tax Department http:\\
www.incometaxindia.gov.in and of NSDL at http:\\ www.tin-
nsdl.com.
It is also to be noted that quarterly TDS returns are also
to be filed in Electronic file with e-TDS Intermediary.
9.5 Checklist for Deductor

After preparing the e-TDS return deductor should check the
following to ensure that the e-TDS return is complete and is ready
for furnishing to TIN-FC :

75