EXEMPTIONS FROM SALARY
INCOME

3.4.1 Section 10 of the I.T.
Act provides for certain categories
of payments to be exempt from taxation, either wholly or partly.
Such payments are not to be included under the head ‘salary’ for
computing the tax deductible.
Some of these are listed below and
are discussed in detail in Chapter-5 of this booklet.
i) Death cum retirement gratuity or any other gratuity:
Exempt to the extent specified u/s 10(10).
ii) Commutation of pension - Exempt to the extent as
provided in sec.
10(10A)

iii) Leave encashment - Exempt to the extent provided in
sec.
LO(AA).
iv) Retrenchment Compensation - exempt to the extent
provided by section 10(10B).
v) Compensation on voluntary retirement - Exempt to the
extent provided by sec.
10(10C)

vi) Payment from provident fund - Exempt to the extent
provided in sec.
10(11) & sec.
10(12).
vii) Payment from approved superannuation fund - Exempt
under section 10(13).
ha]

Interest income & investments - As provided u/s 10(15).
ix) Exemption of pension/family pension to awardees of
PVC, MVC and VC: Clause (18) of section 10 provides
for exemption of any income by way of pension received by
an individual or family pension received by any member of

38

the family of an individual who has been in the service of
the Central Government or State Government and has been
awarded “Param Vir Chakra” or “Maha Vir Chakra” or
“Vir Chakra” or such other gallantry award as may be
specifically notified by the Central Government.
3.4.2 Exemption of Allowances: There are various other
receipts besides the above given regularly in addition to salary for
meeting specific requirements of the employee.
These are
referred to as allowances, in common parlance and taxability of
some of these are discussed here.
(i) Leave travel concession:- The value of any travel
concession or assistance accrued by or due to an employee
from his employer or former employer in connection of his
proceeding on leave (a) to any place in India (b) to any
place in India on retirement or after termination of service.
The amount exempt as prescribed in Rule 2B is the amount
actually incurred on performance of travel on leave in India
by the shortest route to that place, subject to economy air
fare or A.C. Ist class fare.
This exemption is available only
in respect of two journeys in a block of 4 calendar years.
(ii) House Rent allowance - House rent allowance granted to
the employee is exempt u/s 10(13A) to the following extent;

Provided expenditure on rent is actually incurred, the
amount of exemption granted is the least of

(1) HRA received
(2) Rent paid Less 10% of salary

(3) 40% of salary, (50% in case of Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata
& Delhi).
Salary means bonus + Dearness allowance,
where provided by terms of employment.
39