¢ It is to be noted that in case of the following quarterly
statements are to be delivered electronically :

(a) Every Government deductor

(b) Corporate deductor,

(c) The deductor is a person reqired to get his accounts audited
under Sec.
44 AB in the immediately preceding financial
year or

(d) the number of deductee's records in a statement for any
quarter of the financial year is twenty or more;

Such quarterly statements are to be delivered electronically under
digital signature or electronically with verification of statement in
form 27A or verified through an electronic process in accordance
with format and procedure specified in rule 31A(5).
Further, a
declaration in Form 27A is also to be submitted in paper format.
Quarterly statements are also to be filed by such deductors in
electronic format with the e-TDS Intermediary at any of the TIN
Facilitation Centres, particulars of which are available at
www.incometaxindia.gov.in and at http://tin.nsdl.com

¢ A person other than a corporate or government deductor
and categories specified above, may at his option deliver the
quarterly statements in computer readable media as specified
above.
However, it is not mandatory for him to do so.
¢ The quarterly statements are to be furnished in accordance
with the provisions of rule 37A and rule 37B.
e It is mandatory for the deductor to quote the following in
quarterly statements :

(a) TAN
(b) PAN of the deductor

78

(c) PAN of all the deductees

(d) Particulars of tax paid to the Central Government
including Book Identification Number or Challan
Identification Number as the case may be.
However, where the deduction has been made by or on
behalf of the Government, PAN shall not be required to be quoted
in the quarterly statement.
¢ The deductor is also required to furnish the particulars of tax
paid to the Central Government in the quarterly statements.
9.7 Frequently Asked Questions
1.
What is e-TDS Return?
e-TDS return is a TDS return prepared in form No.24Q, 26Q
or 27Q or quarterly statements in electronic media as per prescribed
data structure in either a floppy or a CD ROM.
The floppy or CD
ROM prepared should be accompanied by a signed verification in
Form No.27A.
2. Who is required to file e-TDS return?
As per Section 206 of Income Tax Act all corporate and
government deductors are compulsorily required to file their TDS
return on electronic media (i.e.
e-TDS returns).
Besides those
persons requiring to get their accounts audited u/s 44 AB and those
deductors in whose records there are twenty or more deductees
are also to submit statements electronically.
However, for other
Deductors, filing of e-TDS return is optional.
3.
Under what provision the e-TDS return should be filed?
An e-TDS return should be filed under Section 206 of the
Income Tax Act in accordance with the scheme dated 26.8.03

79