(13) The Chief Minister’s Relief Fund or Lieutenant
Governor’s Relief Fund, in respect of any State or
Union Territory, as the case may be, subject to certain
conditions,

(14) The University or educational institution of national
eminence approved by the prescribed authority,

(15) The National Sports Fund to be set up by the Central
Government,

(16) The National Cultural Fund set up by the Central
Government,

(17) The Fund for Technology Development and Application
set up by the Central Government

(18) The national trust for welfare of persons with autism,
cerebral palsy, mental retardation and multiple
disabilities.
6.5 Allowability of Deduction by the Employer/DDO : The
drawing and Disbursing Officers should satisfy themselves about
the actual deposits/subscriptions/payments made by the employees,
by calling for such particularly information as they deem
necessary before allowing the aforesaid deductions.
In case the
DDO is not satisfied about the genuineness of the employee's
claim regarding any deposit/subscription/payment made by the
employee, he should not allow the same, and the employee would
be free to claim the deduction/rebate on such amount by filing his
return of income and furnishing the necessary proof etc.,
therewith, to the satisfaction of the Assessing Officer.
6.6 Tax Rebate : The total income of an assessee is
determined after deductions from the gross total income are

60

made as discussed in the previous chapter.
It is on this total
income that the tax payable is computed at the rates in force.
The Income Tax Act further provides for rebate from the tax
payable as computed above, if certain investments or payments
are made.
Rebates provided u/s 88 of the Act are distinct and
separate from deductions provided in Chapter VIA of the Act.
While the latter reduces the gross total income, rebate is a
reduction from the tax payable.
It is important to note that no tax rebate u/s 88 is
available from A.Y.2006-07 onwards.
Similarly, sections 88B
and 88C providing special rebates to senior citizens and ladies
and section 88D stand omitted w.e.f.
01.04.2006. w.e.f.
from
10.09.2014 rebate u/s 87A in respect of certain individuals
resident in India, where total income does not exceed five
hundred thousand rupees is entitled to a tax rebate (deduction
from the amount of income- tax) of Rs.
2,000 or be the hundred
percent income tax payable, whichever is less.
W.e.f.
2014 rebate u/s 87A in respect of certain
individuals resident in India, where total income does not
exceed five hundred thousand rupees is entitled to a tax
rebate (deduction from the amount of income-tax) of Rs.
2000/- or hundred percent of the income tax payable
whichever is less.
6.7 RELIEF UNDER SECTION 89(1)

6.7.1 Relief u/s 89(1) is available to an employee when he
receives salary in advance or in arrear or when in one financial
year, he receives salary of more than 12 months, or receives
‘profit in lieu of salary' covered u/s 17(3).
Relief u/s 89(1) is also
admissible on family pension, as the same has been allowed by
Finance Act 2002 (with retrospective effect from 1/4/96).
61