(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

No declaration under sub-section (1A) or sub-section (1C)
of section 197A shall be valid unless the person furnishes
his Permanent Account Number in such declaration.
In case any declaration becomes invalid under sub-section
(2), the deductor shall deduct the tax at source in
accordance with provisions of sub-section(1).
No certificate under section 197 shall be granted unless
the application made under that section contains the
Permanent Account Number of the applicant.
The deductee shall furnish his Permanent Accont Number
to the deductor and both shall indicate the same in all the
correspondence, bills vouchers and other documents
which are sent to each other.
Where the Permanent Account Number provided to the
deductors is invalid or does not belong to the deductee, it
shall be deemed that the deductee has not furnished his
Permanent Account Number to the deductor and the
provisions of sub-section(1) shall apply accordingly.
28

CHAPTER-3
INCOME UNDER THE HEAD
SALARY

3.1 Introduction: The statute enjoins every employer to
estimate the liability of tax deductible at source and to deduct tax
at an average rate.
For this the employer is required to determine
the salary payable to the employee and accordingly compute the
tax liability.
The employer must estimate this tax liability at the
very beginning of the financial year in accordance with the
following sequence of steps:

(1) The employer should first compute the gross salary payable
to the employee during the year taking into account any
salary received/receivable by the employee from any other
employer/former employer.
(2) The gross salary is to be reduced by those payments which
are exempt from taxation.
(3) Deductions u/s 16 are to be reduced from the above amount
to arrive at the net salary payable.
(4) Income chargeable under any other head as reported by the
employee is to be added and accordingly the gross total
income (GTI) is to be computed.
(5) Deduction under Chapter VI-A for which the employee is
eligible is to be reduced from gross total income and thus
the total income is to be computed.
(6) On the basis of the rates in force, the tax liability on the total
income of the employee is to be computed.
(7) The tax liability so computed is to be increased by the
surcharge payable (if any) and education cess payable at
prescribed rate, to arrive at the total tax payable.
29