b) Penalty u/s 221- The assessee in default is liable to imposition
of penalty where the assessing officer is satisfied that the defaulter
has failed to deduct tax as required without good and sufficient
reason.
The quantum of penalty is not to exceed the amount of tax
in arrear.
Besides, a reasonable opportunity of being heard is to be
given to the assessee.
c) Penalty u/s 271C- A penalty equivalent to the amount of
tax the deductor has failed to deduct, is leviable u/s 271C.
Such penalty is however only leviable by a Joint Commissioner of
Income Tax.
7.2 Failure to deposit tax in govt.
account after
deduction: Where the employee has deducted the tax at source
but failed to deposit wholly or partly, the tax so deducted
in government account, the following statutory provisions are
attracted:-

a) Interest u/s 201(1A)- The deductor is treated as an
assessee in default and interest u/s 201(1A) is leviable @ 1.5%
for every month or part of the month on the amount of such
tax from the date on which such tax was deducted to the date
on which such tax is actually paid.
Further, the tax along with
the simple interest u/s 201(1A) becomes a charge upon all the
assets of the deductor.
b) Penalty u/s 221- Penalty to the extent of tax not deposited
is leviable by the A.O.
as discussed earlier.
c) Prosecution proceedings u/s 276 B- Where the
deductor has failed to deposit tax deducted at source, in govt.
a/c without a reasonable cause then he is punishable with
rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than
3 months but which may extend to 7 years and with fine.
64

7.3 Failure to apply for T.A.N or to quote T.A.N.
Where a person who is responsible to deduct tax at source
has failed, without reasonable cause:-

a) To apply for T.A.N.
within prescribed period or

b) After allotment, failed to quote such TAN in challans for
payment of tax or TDS certificate or returns of TDS (as
required u/s 206) - then a penalty u/s 272BB of a sum of
Rs.10,000 may be imposed by the assessing officer.
However,
a reasonable opportunity of hearing must be given to the
employer/deductor.
7.4 Failure to furnish TDS certificate or returns/
statement of tax deduction at source- (penalty u/s.
272A(2)) Where the employer has failed to issue TDS certificate
(form 16) within one month of the end of financial year (by 31* of
May of the next FY.
for FY.
2010-11 onwards) or has failed to
furnish the quarterly statement of tax in form 24Q, within the time
prescribed u/s 200(3) (rule 31A), then a penalty of Rs.
100 is leviable
for each day during the period for which default continues.
The
quantum of penalty is not to exceed the tax deductible and it is to be
levied only by a Joint Commissioner or Joint D.LT.
after giving the
assessee an opportunity of being heard.
7.5 Prosecution u/s 277- Where a person, who is required to
furnish statement u/s 200(3) (quarterly statements) makes a false
statement in verification or, delivers an account or statement
which is false and which the person knows or believes to be false
or does not believe to be true, then he is punishable with rigorous
imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than 3 months but
which may extend to 7 years along with fine.
Where the amount of tax, which would have been evaded if
the statement or account had been accepted as true, is 1 lakh rupees

65