» No bank challan, copy of TDS certificate should be
furnished alongwith e-TDS return file.
>» In case of Form 26Q and 27Q, deductor need not
furnish physical copies of certificates of no deduction or
lower deduction of TDS received from deductees.
» e-TDS return file should contain TAN of the deductor
without which the return will not be accepted.
» CD/pen drive should be virus free.
In case any of these requirements are not met the e-TDS
return will not be accepted at TIN- FCs.
9.
Can more than one e-TDS returns of the same Deductor
be prepared in one CD/floppy?
No, separate CD/floppy should be used for each return.
10.
Where can the e-TDS return be filed?
e-TDS returns can be filed at any of the TIN-FC opened
by the e-TDS Intermediary for this purpose.
Addresses of these
TIN- FCs are available at the website on http://
www.incometaxindia.gov.in/ or at www.tin-nsdl.com.
11.
What are the basic details that should be included in the
e-TDS return?
Following information must be included in the e-TDS return
for successful acceptance.
If any of these essential details is missing,
the returns will not be accepted at the TIN - Facilitation Centres -

» Correct Tax deduction Account Number (TAN) of the
Deductor is clearly mentioned in Form No.27A as also in
the e-TDS return, as required by sub-section (2) of section
203A of the Income-tax Act.
82

» The particulars relating to deposit of tax deducted at source
in the bank are correctly and properly filled in the table at
item No.6 of Form No.24 or item No.4 of Form No.26 or
item No.4 of Form No.27, as the case may be.
v

The data structure of the e-TDS return is as per the structure
prescribed by the e-Filing Administrator.
The Control Chart in Form 27A is duly filled in all columns
and verified and as enclosed in paper form with the e-TDS
return on computer media.
v

The Control totals of the amount paid and the tax
deducted at source as mentioned at item No.4 of Form
No.27A tally with the corresponding totals in the e-e TDS
return in Form No.
24 or Form No.
26 of Form No.27, as
the case may be.
12.
What is Form No.
27A?
Form No.
27A is a control chart of quarterly e-TDS/TCS
statements to be filed in paper form by deductor/collectors
alongwith quarterly statements.
It is a summary of e-TDS/TCS
returns which contains control totals of amount paid and income
tax deducted at source.
The control totals of amount paid and
income tax deducted at source mentioned on form No.
27A
should match with the corresponding control totals in e-TDS/TCS
return.
A separate Form No.
27A is to be filed for each e-TDS/
TCS return.
13.
While submitting Form No.
27A, one should ensure
that:

a) There is no overwriting/striking on Form No.
27A if there is
any, then the same should be ratified (singed) by the
authorised signatory.
83