for electronic filing of TDS returns notified by the CBDT for
this purpose.
CBDT Circular No.8 dated 19.9.03 may also be
referred.
4.
What are the forms to be used for filing annual/quarterly
TDS/TCS returns?
Following are the returns for TDS their periodicity:

Form No.
Particulars Periodicity

Form 24Q | Quarterly statement for tax deducted at | Quarterly
source from “Salaries”

Form 26Q | Quarterly statement of tax deducted at | Quarterly
source in respect of all payments other
than “Salaries”

Form 27Q | Quarterly statement of deduction of tax | Quarterly
from interest, dividend or any other sum
payable to non-residents

5. Who is the e-Filing Administrator?
The CBDT has appointed the Director General of Income-
tax(Systems) as e- Filing Administrator for the purpose of the
Electronic Filing of Returns of Tax Deducted at Source Scheme,
2003.
6. Who is an e-TDS Intermediary?
CBDT has appointed National Securities Depository Ltd.,
Mumbai as e-TDS Intermediary.
7.
Is there is any software available for preparation of e-
TDS/TCS return?
NSDL has made available a freely downloadable return preparation
utility for preparationof e-TDS//TCS returns.
Additionally, you

80

can develop your own software for this purpose or you may
acquire software from various third party vendors.
A list of
vendors, who have informed NSDL that they have developed
software for preparing e-TDS/TCS return, is available on the
NSDL-TIN website.
8.
How will the e-TDS returns be prepared?
e-TDS return has to be prepared in the data format issued
by e-Filing Administrator.
This is available on the website of
Income-tax Department at i.e.
http://www.incometaxindia.gov.in/
and of NSDL at http://www.tin-nsdl.com/.
There is a validation
software available along with the data structure which should be
used to validate the data structure of the e-TDS return prepared.
The e-TDS return should have following features:-

>» Each e-TDS return file (Form 24Q, 26Q or 27Q)
should be in a separate CD/pen drive.
» Each e-TDS return file should be accompanied by a
duly filled and signed (by an authorised signatory)
Form 27A in physical form.
» Each e-TDS return file should be in one CD/floppy.
It
should not span across multiple media computer.
» Incase the e-TDS return file is in a compressed form at,
it should be compressed using Winzip 8.1 or ZipItFast
3.0 compression utility only to ensure quick and smooth
acceptance of the file.
» Label should be affixed on each CD mentioning name of
the deductor, his TAN, Form no.
(24, 26 or 27) and period
to which the return pertains.
» There should be not any overwriting / striking on Form
27A.
If there is any, then the same should be ratified by
an authorised signatory.
81