or less, then rigorous imprisonment may be from 3 months to three
years and with fine.
7.6 The Finance Act, 2008 has introduced amendment in section
201 (w.e.f.
1.6.2002) which clarifies, that in case any employer, or
any principal officer of a company;

(a) does not deduct,or

(b) does not pay,

(c) or after so deducting fails to pay the whole or any part of the
tax, then such person shall be deemed to be an assessee in
default.
Further penalty to be charged u/s.
221 shall not be
levied by the assessing officer unless he is satisfied that such
failure to deduct and pay tax was without good and sufficient
reasons.
66

CHAPTER-8
TDS ON SALARY PAYMENTS
TO NON RESIDENTS &
EXPATRIATES

8.1 As per Section 192 of the IT Act, any person responsible for
paying any amount under the head salaries is required to deduct tax
at source at the time of payment.
This section unlike some other
provisions, does not distinguish between payment of salary, to a
resident, non resident or expatriate.
Thus all payments which are
taxable under the head salaries, are also covered by the provisions
of TDS, irrespective of the residential status of the recipient.
However, the residential status of an individual is pertinent in
determining whether the receipt itself is taxable in India or not.
The various categories of residential status and statutory provisions
pertaining to taxability of income in India in each case is being
discussed below:

8.2 Residential Status: Section 6 of the Indian Income Tax
Statue specifies 3 categories, as far as residential status is
concerned.
Resident An individual is said to be resident in
India in any previous year if he is in
India for at least 182 days in that year
or during that year he is in India for a
period of at least 60 days and has been
in India for at least 365 days during the
4 years preceding that year.
However,
the period of 60 days referred to above
is increased to 182 days in case of
Indian citizens who leave India as
members of the crew of an Indian Ship

67