(c)

(d)

rental paid or payable by the employer or 15% of salary
which ever is lower, as reduced by the rent if any actually
paid by the employee.
Value of Furnished Accommodation - The value would be
the value of unfurnished accommodation as computed above
increased by 10% per annum of the cost of furniture (including
T.V./radio/refrigerator/AC/other gadgets).
In case such
furniture is hired from a third party, the value of unfurnished
accommodation would be increased by the hire charges paid/
payable by the employer.
However, any payment recovered
from the employee towards the above would be reduced from
this amount.
Value of hotel accommodation provided by the
employer- The value of perquisite arising out of the above
would be 24% of salary of the previous year or the actual
charges paid or payable to the hotel, whichever is lower.
The above would be reduced by any rent actually paid by
the employee.
It may be noted that no perquisite would arise
if the employee is provided such accommodation on transfer
from one place to another for a period of 15 days or less.
3.3.2 Perquisite of motor car provided by the
employer Rule 3(2):-

() Where motor car is owned or hired by the employer
and is used wholly and exclusively in the performance
of official duties, no perquisite arises provided specified
documents are maintained.
(ii) Where the motor car is owned or hired by the
employer but used exclusively for private or personal
purposes, the perquisite is the actual amount of expenditure
incurred by the employer on running and maintenance
including remuneration if any paid to the chauffeur.
32

(iii)

(iv)

This is to be increased by an amount representing
normal wear and tear of the motor car as reduced by
any amount charged from the employee.
Where motor car is used partly in performance of
duties and partly for private or personal purposes.
The
perquisite is

(a) Rs.
1800 (plus Rs.
900 if chauffeur is provided)
if running and maintenance is borne by employer.
(b) Rs.
600 (plus Rs.
900 if chauffeur is provided)
where running and maintenance for private use is
fully met by employee.
The aforesaid amounts will be increased to Rs.
2400
(instead of Rs.
1800) and Rs.
900/-(instead of Rs.
600)
where the motor car provided, has cubic capacity of
engine exceeding 1.6 litres.
Where employee owns a motor car but the actual
running and maintenance charges (including
remuneration of the chauffeur if any) are met or
reimbursed to him by the employer and,

(a) where the reimbursement is for use of vehicle for
official purpose the perquisite will be nil.
However,
specified documents need to be maintained.
(b) Where vehicle is used partly for official and partly
for personal purposes, the perquisite is the actual
amount of expenditure incurred by the employer
as reduced by amount specified in 3.3.2 (iii)
above.
3.3.3 Provision of sweeper, gardener, watchman or
attendant:- The value of perquisite resulting from provision of
a sweeper, a gardener a watchman or a personal attendant shall

33