(vi)

representatives and officers of the following specialized
agencies of the United Nations or other international
organizations.
The Ministry of External Affairs has also clarified that
the United Nations officials and the technical assistance
experts may be treated at par.
More over, the procedural
distinction in the matter of extending privileges between
officials and experts on mission has been dispensed with.
As a result, experts on mission are also entitled to the
same privileges and immunities as are enjoyed by the
officials of the United Nations.
72

CHAPTER-9
e-TDS & QUARTERLY
STATEMENTS OF TDS

9.1 Introduction :

e-TDS implies, filing of the TDS return in electronic media as
per prescribed data structure in either a floppy or a CD ROM.
The aforesaid requirement is essentially a part of the process
of automation of collection, compilation and processing of TDS
returns.
Preparation of returns in electronic forms or e-TDS will
eventually be beneficial to the deductor, by cutting down the return
preparation time, reducing the volume of documentation and thereby
economizing the compliance cost.
At the same time, it will also
facilitate the Government in better co-relation of taxes deducted
with the taxes finally deposited in the banks and credits of TDS
claimed by the deductees.
9.2 Statutory Requirement of Preparation of e-TDS

As per proviso to section 206(2), w.e.f.
01/04/2005, a deductor
is required to prepare the return of TDS in electronic form.
The
comprehensive scheme of e-TDS has been notified vide
Notification No.
S.O.
974 (E) dated 26/08/2003.
The present
statutory provisions mandate the Government and Corporate
deductors to file the TDS returns and statements in
electronic form with the designated e-TDS Intermediary at
any of the TIN facilitation centres.
Further where the deductor is,

(a) A person required to get his accounts audited u/s 44 AB in the
immediately preceding F.-Y.
or

(b) The number of deductee's record in a statement for any quarter
of F.Y.
is twenty or more.
73