With respect to the quarterly statements of TDS, the
following points are noteworthy : -

Every deductor is required to file the quarterly statement of
TDS in form No.
24Q for each quarter as per the dates
specified above.
¢ The statement may be furnished in any of the following
manners namely :

(a) Paper form

(b) Electronically, under digital signature in accordance
with the procedures, formats and standards specified
under sub-rule (5); of Rule 31A.
(c) Electronically, along with the verification of the statement
in Form 27A or verified through an electronic process
in accordance with the procedures, formats and
standards specified under sub-rule (5) of Rule 31A.
It is to be noted that in case of the following quarterly
statements are to be delivered electronically;

(a) Every Government deductor,
(b) Corporate deductor,

(c) The deductor is a person required to get his accounts
audited under sec.
44 AB in the immediately preceding
financial year or

(d) The number of deductee's records in a statement for
any quarter of the financial year is twenty or more;

Such quarterly statements are to be delivered electronically
under digital signature or electronically with verification of
statement in form 27A or verified through an electronic processs

22

in accordance with format and procedure specified in rule
31A(5).
Further, a declaration in Form 27A is also to be
submitted in paper format.
Quarterly statements are also to be
filed by such deductors in electronic format with the e-TDS
Intermediary at any of the TIN Facilitation Centres, particulars of
which are available at www.incometaxindia.gov.in and at
http://tin.nsdl.com.
¢ A person other than a deductor specified above may at his
option deliver the quarterly statements electronically in
computer media as provided above.
However, it is not
mandatory for it to do so.
¢ The quarterly statements are to be furnished in accordance
with the provisions of rule 37A and rule 37B.
¢ It is mandatory for the deductor to quote the following in
quarterly statements

(a) TAN

(b) PAN of the deductor (except where deductor is an
office of the government)

(c) PAN of all the deductees

(d) Particulars of tax paid to the Central Government
including Book Identification Number or Challan
Identification Number as the case may be.
(e) Particulars of amount paid or credited on which tax
was not deducted in view of issue of certificate of no
deduction of tax u/s 197 by the assessing officer to the
payee.
° For a statement of tax deducted at source to be furnished
for TDS done before 1/4/2010, the provisions of Rule 31A

23