2.
In other cases of deposition by the Government vide a
challan, the payment has to be made within seven days (7
days) of the last day of the month in which the deduction
is made or income-tax is due under section 192(1A).
3.
In case of a deductor other than Government, the payment
is to be made before 30" day of April where income or
amount is credited or paid in the month of March.
4.
In other cases of deduction by non-government deductors,
payment has to be made within seven days from the end of
month in which deduction is made or Income-tax is due
under sub-section 1-A of Sec.
192.
5.
However, vide Rule 30(B), the Assessing Officer can, in
special cases with the prior approval of joint Commissioner
of Income Tax, allow payment of TDS quarterly, i.e.
by 7"
of July for the quarter ending 30" of June, by 7" of
October for the quarter ending 30" of September, by 7"
of January for the quarter ending 31" of December and
by 30" of April for the quarter ending 31" of March.
2.6.2 Place of desposition of tax

Tax has to be deposited to the credit of the Central Government
in any of the branches of RBI, SBI or any authorised bank.
The
payment can be made either in cheque or cash or draft drawn on
local banks.
In case of payment made by cheque, the date of
encashment of the cheque will be the date of payment of tax
(Circular No.141 dt.
23-7-1974).
It has been clarified vide circular No.306 dt.
19-6-1961 that
payment of tax deducted at source should be made at the place
where the DDO/the person responsible for TDS is required to file
annual/periodical statement of TDS.
2.6.3 Challan of Payment

Where a deduction is made by or on behalf of the Government,
the amount is to be credited in the manner specified above without
the use of challan (See Rule 30).
In case of other deductors, the
deposition of TDS is to be made vide challan No.ITNS 281.The
deductor must ensure that the details like employer’s name and
address, PAN, TAN, the Assessing Officer having jurisdiction, the
amount of tax and surcharge and cess, the date of payment, the
salary from which TDS has been done and the tax which is being
paid, are correctly filled.
Where TDS is credited to Government
account through book adjustments, care should be taken by the
DDOs to ensure that the correct amount of income tax is reflected
therein.
For deductions made after 1.4.2010 the I.T.
6" Amendment
rules 2010 (notification dt.
31/5/2010) provide the following
(Rule 30(4)).
1.
In case of deduction by the office of a Government without
the production of challan, the pay and Accounts officer
or the Treasury officer or the cheque Drawing and
Disbursing officer, to whom the deductor reports the
deduction and who is responsible for crediting the sum to
the Central Government, is required to;

(a) Submit a statement in form 24G within ten day from
the end of the month, in respect of the tax deducted
and reported to him for that month.
This statement is
to be furnished to an agency authorized by DGIT
(Systems).
(b) Such agency will generate a number called Book
Identification Number in respect of tax deducted and
credited.
This number is to be intimated to the
respective deductors by the PAO/DDO/Treasury officers.