paid by or recovered from the employee.
However the
aforesaid will not include the following :

@
Gi)

(iii)

Use
(i)

Gi)

Initial fee paid for acquiring corporate membership.
Where such expenses are incurred wholly and
exclusively for the purpose of business, its complete
details (including business expediency is maintained)
and employer certifies it to be for the purpose of
business/official duties.
Where facility of use of health club, sports and similar
facilities are uniformly provided to all employees.
[Rule 3

(7) (vi)]
of Assets

In case the employee is provided by the employer any
immovable asset (other than assets already specified in
Rule-3 and other than laptop and computers) then the
value of the benefit shall be 10% per annum of the
actual cost of such asset.
In case asset is hired by the
employer and then given to the employee then the
value of the benefit shall be the rent or charge paid or
payable by the employer.
However the amount paid by
the employee or recovered from him by the employer
(towards the cost of the asset or rent will be reduced
from this benefit).
[Rule 3 (7) (vii)]

Transfer of Immovable Asset

If employer transfers to the employee any immovable
asset belonging to the employer either directly or
indirectly to the employee or member of his household
then the value of benefit shall be the actual cost of
such asset to the employer.However an amount of
10% of such cost for each completed year of use of

36

asset by the employer shall be reduced as the cost of
normal wear and tear.
Further the amount paid by or
recovered from the employee is a consideration
towards such transfer and shall also be reduced.
In
case of computers and electronics items the normal
wear and tear is to be calculated @ 50% while in the
case of motor cars @ 20% by the reducing balance
method.
[Rule 3 (7) (viii)]

(g) Other benefits

3.3.8 The value of any other benefit or amenity provided by the
employer shall be determined on the basis of cost to the employer
under an arms’ length transaction as reduced by the employee’s
contribution.
[Rule 3 (7) (ix)]

3.3.9 Security or sweat equity share.
Employer stock option
where any specified security or sweat equity share is provided by
the employer to the employee (being an equity share in a
company) the value of perquisite, on the date on which the option
is exercised by the employee, shall be; the average of the
opening and closing price of the share in the listed recognized
stock exchange.
Where on the date of exercising of the option the share is
listed in more than one stock exchange, then the opening and
closing values in the stock exchange recording trading the highest
value of that shares trading, will be taken.
Further in case no
trading in that share takes place on the day of exercise of the
option the closing price on the closest date preceding the date of
exercise of option shall be taken in case the share is listed in
more than one exchange then the value of exchange recording
highest transaction shall be taken.
In case of a share not listed
on a stock exchange the value as determined by a merchant
banker on the specified date shall be taken.
[Rule 3 (8)]

37