4.3 Computation of loss from House Property

A loss is determinable under the head ‘house property’ only
in a case where such loss is arising on account of payment of
interest on borrowed capital, which has been used for acquiring,
constructing, repairing or renewing or reconstructing the house
property.
In case of a let out property the entire amount of such
interest is allowable as a deduction from the annual value of
house property.
However, in the case of a self occupied property
or a property unoccupied by owner for reasons of employment,
business/profession at another place, such deduction is limited to
Rs.30,000/-.
Where the property, however, has been acquired or
constructed with capital borrowed, on or after the Ist day of
April 1999 and such acquisition or construction is completed
before the Ist day of April 2003, then the amount of deduction
allowable is upto Rs.
one lakh fifty thousand.
The Finance Act,
2002 has provided that w.e.f.
01.04.2003, this higher deduction of
Rs.1,50,000/- on account of interest will be available if such loan
has been taken after 01.04.99 and the construction or acquisition
of the residential unit of such loan has been completed within 3
years from the end of the financial year in which capital was
borrowed.
Now the assessee is also required to furnish a
certificate from the person to whom such interest is payable,
specifying the amount of interest payable for the purpose of such
acquisition or construction of property, or conversion of whole or
any part of the capital borrowed which remains to be repaid as
a new loan.
Further the interest on borrowed capital corresponding
to the period prior to the previous year in which property
has been acquired or constructed is also allowed as
deduction in five equal installments, in the year of
completion and four immediately succeeding years.
44

CHAPTER-5
TDS ON PENSION AND
RETIREMENT BENEFITS

5.1 What is Pension?
Pension is described in Section 60 of
the CPC and Section 11 of the Pension Act as a periodical
allowance or stipend granted on account of past service,
particular merits, etc.
It involves three essential features.
Firstly,
pension is a compensation for the past service, secondly, it owes
its relationship to a past employer-employee relationship or
master servant relationship.
Lastly, it is paid on the basis of
earlier relationship of agreement of services as opposed to an
agreement for service.
Pension received from a former employer is taxable as
salary.
As such the relevant provisions of TDS as specified in
Section 192 and other relevant provisions are also applicable to
pension income and tax is deductible on the same as it is in the
case of payment of salary.
5.1.2 TDS on payment of pension through
Nationalised Banks: It has been clarified by CBDT vide
circular NO.
761 dt.
13/01/98 that in the case of pensioners
receiving pension through nationalized banks, provisions of TDS
are applicable in the same manner as they apply to the salary
income.
From the income being paid as pension the banks are
required to allow deductions under chapter VIA.
Similarly relief u/s 89(1) for the arrears of pension received
is also to be granted by the banks.
Instructions in this regard have
been issued by Reserve Bank of India vide R.B.I’S pension

45