borne by the employer then for the purpose of deduction of tax, the
income is to be increased to such an amount as would, after deduction
of tax thereon be equal to the net amount payable as per the
agreement or arrangement (Section 195A).
However, this provision
is not applicable where the employer has made payment of tax on
non-monetary perquisites as provided in section 192(1A).
2.5.7 Refund of TDS

In case of excess deduction of tax at source, claim of refund
of such excess TDS can be made by the deductor.
The excess
amount is refundable as per procedure laid down for refund of
TDS vide Circular No.2/2011 dt.
27.4.11 (which supersedes the
earlier circular no.285 dt 21.10.1980 on this subject).
The difference between the actual payment made by the
deductor and the tax deductible at source, will be treated as the
excess payment made.
In case such excess payment is discovered by the deductor
during the financial year concerned, the present system permits
credit of the excess payment in the quarterly statement of TDS
of the next quarter during the financial year.
In case, the deduction of such excess amount is made
beyond the financial year concerned, such claim can be
made to the Assessing Officer (TDS) concerned.
However, no
claim of refund can be made after two years from the end
of financial year in which tax was deductible at source.
However, for refund claims pertaining to the period upto
March 31, 2009 may be submitted to the assessing officer
(TDS) upto 31.3.2012.
However, to avoid double claim of TDS by the deductor
as well as by the deductee, the following safeguards must be
exercised by the Assessing Officer concerned:

The applicant deductor shall establish before the Assessing
Officer that:

(i) it is case of genuine error and that the error had occurred
inadvertently;

(ii) that the TDS certificate for the refund amount requested
has not been issued to the deductee(s); and

(iii) that the credit for the excess amount has not been claimed
by the deductee(s) in the return of income or the
deductee(s) undertakes not to claim in excess of Rupees
One Lakh and Rupees Ten Lakh respectively.
After meeting any existing tax liability of the deductor,
the balance amount may be refunded to the deductor.
In view of provisions of section 200A of the Income-tax
Act prescribing processing of statement of TDS and issue of
refund with effect from 1-4-2010, this circular will be applicable
for claim of refunds for the period upto 31-3-2010.
2.6 Deposit of tax in Government account

As per Section 200 of the IT Act, the person responsible for
deducting tax from payment made to an employee is also required
to deposit the tax so deducted in Government account within the
prescribed time and in the manner prescribed vide Rule 30.
Vide
LT. 6" Amendment Rules, 2010 (notification dt.
31/5/2010 the
Rule 30 has been amended and the following is now provided
for deductions made w.e.f.
1.4.2010 :

2.6.1 Time limit for deposition

1.
Where deduction is made by or on behalf of the
Government, without the production of challan, the
payment has to be made on the day of tax deduction itself.