e-TDS return is in conformity with the file format notified by
ITD.
Each e-TDS return is furnished in a separate CD/floppy
alongwith duly filled and signed Form 27A in physical form.
Separate Form 27A in physical form is furnished for each e-
TDS return.
Form 27A is duly filled and signed by an authorized signatory.
Striking and overwriting, if any, on Form 27A are ratified by
the person who has signed Form 27A.
More than one e-TDS return is not furnished in one CD/floppy.
More than one CD/floppy is not used for furnishing one e-
TDS return.
Label is affixed on CD/floppy containing details of deductor/
collector like name of deductor/collector, TAN, Form no.
and
period to which return pertains.
e-TDS return is compressed, using Winzip 8.1 or ZipItFast
3.0 compression (or higher version) utility only.
TAN quoted in e-TDS return and stated on Form 27A is same.
Confirm new TAN by using search facility on ITD website .
Carry copy of TAN allotment letter from ITD or screen print
from ITD website as proof of TAN to avoid inconvenience at
time of furnishing due to minor variation in way of transcribing
the new TAN in e-TDS return.
In case of government deductors if TAN is not available at
the time of furnishing return, application for TAN (Form 49B)
should be made along with e-TDS return or copy of
acknowledgement of TAN application to be submitted.
76

.
Control totals, TAN and name mentioned in e-TDS return
match with those mentioned on Form 27A.
.
In case of Form 24, copies of certificates of no deduction of
TDS and deduction of TDS at concessional rate, received
from deductees are attached.
¢ _ e-TDS return has been successfully passed through the FVU.
¢  CD/floppy furnished is virus free.
9.6 Quarterly Statements of TDS :

The provisions of quarterly statements of TDS have been
introduced in the statute vide section 200(3) w.e.f.
01/04/2005.
Every person responsible for deducting tax is required to file
quarterly statements of TDS for the quarter ending on 30" June,
30" September, 31 December, and 31“ March in each Financial
Year.
This statement is to be prepared in Form No.
24Q (relevant
rule 31A) and is to be delivered with prescribed income-tax
authority [Director General of Income tax (System)]or the person
authorized by such authority.
Where the deductor is office of a
governments, then the quaterly statements is to be filed of 31st
July, 31st October, 31st December in respect of first three quarters
and 15th May is respect of last quarter.
For all other deductors the
quarterly statements is to be filed on or before the 15th July, the
15th October and the 15th January in respect of the first three
quarter of the financial year and or before the 15th May following
the last quarter of the Financial Year.
With respect to the quarterly statements of TDS, the following
points are noteworthy : -

¢ Every deductor is required to file the quarterly statement of
TDS in form No.
24Q for each quarter as per the dates specified
above.
77