26.
How will the PAN wise ledger account be created by the
intermediary i.e.
NSDL in respect of payment of TDS made
by deductors in Banks?
The PAN wise ledger account will be created after
matching the information in the TDS/TCS returns filed by the
deductor/ collector and the details of tax deposited in banks
coming through OLTAS.
27.
What essential information will be required to be given
in the quarterly statement to enable accurate generation of
PAN wise ledger account?
The accuracy of PAN wise ledger account will depend on:-
» Correct quoting of TAN by the deductor.
» Correct quoting of PAN of deductor.
» Correct and complete quoting of PAN of deductee.
» Correct quoting of CIN (challan identification number)
wherever payment is made by challan.
28.
Will a deductee be able to view his ledger account on
TIN website?
Yes.
29.
If a deductee finds discrepancy in his PAN ledger account,
what is the mechanism available for correction?
The details regarding the help required for filing of e-TDS are
available on the following two websites:

>» — http://www.incometaxindia.gov.in

» http://www.tin-nsdl.com

The TIN Facilitation Centers of the NSDL at over 270 cities
are also available for all related help in the e-filing of the TDS
returns.
88

30.
Whether the e-TDS can be filed online?
Yes, e-TDS return can be filed online under digital signature.
31.
Will the Paper TDS data be available online on TIN
database?
Yes, the Paper TDS data will also be available in TIN
database after the digitalization of the Paper TDS return by the
e-intermediary.
32.
I do not know the Bank branch code of the branch in
which I deposited tax.
Can I leave this field blank?
Bank Branch code or BSR code is a 7 digit code allotted to
banks by RBI.
This is different from the branch code which is used
for bank drafts etc.
This no.
is given in the OLTAS challan or can
be obtained from the bank branch or from http://www.tin-nsdl.com.
It is mandatory to quote BSR code both in challan details and
deductee details.
Hence, this field cannot be left blank.
Government
deductors transfer tax by book entry, in which case the BSR code
can be left blank.
33.
What should I mention in the field “paid by book entry
or otherwise” in deduction details?
If payment to the parties (on which TDS has been deducted)
has been made actually i.e.
by cash, cheque, demand draft or any
other acceptable mode, then “otherwise” has to be mentioned in
the specified field.
But if payment has not been actually made and
merely a provision has been made on the last date of the accounting
year, then the option “Paid by Book Entry” has to be selected.
34.
What is the “Upload File” in the new File Validation
Utility?
Earlier the “Input file” of the File Validation Utility (FVU) had
to be filed with TIN FC.
Now “Upload File” which has some

89