or for Indian citizens or persons of
Indian origin who being outside India,
come to visit India in any previous year.
Non-Resident A person who is not a resident in terms
of the above provisions is a non-
resident.
Resident but not ordinarily resident (RNOR)

An individual shall be said to be RNOR if he has been a non
resident in 9 out of 10 previous years preceding that year or has
during the 7 years preceding that year been in India for a period of
729 days or less.
8.3 Scope of Taxation :

Residential Status Taxability of Income

Resident All income of the previous year
wherever accruing or arising or received
by him including incomes deemed to
have accrued or arisen.
Non-Resident All income accruing, arising, to or
deemed to have accrued or arisen or
received in India.
RNOR All income accruing or arising or deemed
to have accrued or arisen or received
in India.
Moreover, all income earned
outside India will also be included if the
same is derived from a business or
profession controlled or set up in
India.
8.4 Expatriates Working in India: In case of a foreign
expatriate working in India, the remuneration received by him,

68

assessable under the head ‘Salaries’, is deemed to be earned in
India if it is payable to him for services rendered in India as provided
in Section 9(1)(ii) of the Income Tax Act.
The explanation to the
aforesaid law clarifies that income in the nature of salaries payable
for services rendered in India shall be regarded as income earned
in India.
Further the income payable for the leave period which is
preceded and succeeded by services rendered in India and forms
part of the service contract shall also be regarded as income earned
in India.
Thus, irrespective of the residential status of the expatriate
employee, the amount received by him as salary, for services
rendered in India shall be liable to tax in India being income accruing
or arising in India, and also be subject to TDS regardless of the
place where the salary is actually received.
8.5 TDS in case of payment of salary in foreign
currency: Where salary is payable in foreign currency, the amount
of tax deducted is to be calculated after converting the salary payable
into Indian currency at the telegraphic transfer buying rate as adopted
by State Bank of India on the date of deduction of tax(Rule 26)
read with Section 192(6).
It may be noted that this rule is applicable only for determination
of TDS.
However, in computing the salary income, the rate of
conversion to be applied is the telegraphic transfer buying rate on
the last day of month immediately preceding the month in which
the salary is due or is paid in advance or arrears(Rule 115).
8.6 Refund of tax where the employee has left India:
Where at the time of assessment any refund has become due to a
non resident, who was deputed to work in India, has left India
without any bank account and his taxes were borne by the employer,
then such a refund can be issued to the employer, as taxes were
being paid by it.
( circular no.
707 dt.
11.7.95).
69