diseases in Rule 3A or where the loan is petty not
exceeding in the aggregate Rs.
20,000/-.
V) No perquisite shall arise in relation to expenses on
telephones including a mobile phone incurred on behalf of
the employee by the employer.
3.5 Deductions from Salary Income: The deductions are
allowable from the salary income as specified in Section 16 of
the IT Act and are being given below:

3.5.1 Professional/employment tax: As levied by the State
Government.
3.5.2.
Entertainment allowance: With effect from A.Y.
2002-03, this deduction is admissible only to government
employees to the extent of Rs.5,000 or 20% of salary whichever
is less.
42

CHAPTER-4
INCOME OTHER THAN
‘SALARIES’

4.1 Introduction: An employee may be in receipt of other
income chargeable to tax such as interest income, capital gains,
income from house property, etc.
In such a case, sub-section 2B
of Section 192 enables the employee to furnish particulars of
such income and any TDS thereon to the employer/drawing &
disbursing officer.
The particulars of loss may be furnished in a
simple statement which is properly verified by the tax payer in
the same manner as in form 12C.
(as per rule 26B)

The particulars of income furnished should not be loss under
any such head, other than loss under the head “Income from
House Property”, for the same financial year.
The person
responsible for making payments shall take such income and the
loss, if any, under the head income from house property into
account for the purpose of computing tax deductible u/s 192.
It
is further provided that except in a case where loss under the
head income from house property has been taken into account,
this sub-section shall not in any other case have the effect of
reducing the tax deductible from income under the head salaries
below the amount which would have been deductible if the other
income and tax deductible thereon had not been taken into
account.
4.2 Loss from House Property

The D.D.O.
can take into account any loss from a
house property only for working out the amount of total tax
to be deducted.
While taking into account this loss the D.D.O.
shall ensure that the assessee files a declaration and encloses
there with the computation of such loss.
43