The employer may issue a duplicate cetificate in Form No.
16
(Relevant Rule-31(5)).
However such a certificate has to be
certified as duplicate by the deductor.
Further where a cerificate is to be furnished in form No.
16,
the deductor may, at his option, use digital signatures to authenticate
such certificates.
In case of issue of such certificates the deductor
shall ensure that-

(a) The provisions of sub-rule (2) of Rule 31 ragarding
specification of TAN, PAN of deducteee book identification
number; Challan identification number; receipt number of
relevant quarterly statements etc.
are complied with;

(b) Once the certificate is digitally signed, the contents of the
certificates are not amendable to change; and

(c) The certificate have a control number and a log of such
certificates is maintained by the deductor.
2.7.6 Credit of the tax where TDS is by book
adjustments

In case of deduction of tax at source by any department of
the Central Government, payment of the same to the credit of the
Income Tax Department by means of book adjustments is permitted.
In such a case, in the certificate of TDS (Form No.
16) issued to
the employee the DDO must specify that credit of TDS has been
afforded to the Income tax department by book adjustment and
also the date of such book adjustment.
In case of credit of tax by book adjustments, for tax
deductions made after 1/4/2010, the provision as incorporated
vide I.T.
(6% Amendment) Rules notification dt.
31/5/2010 will
be applicable, these are;

e = The office of the Government is to give credit to the Central
Government on the same day where tax is paid without
production of challan/by book adjustment (Rule 30(1)).
e The Pay and Accounts offices/DDO/Treasury officer who
is crediting the sum to Central Government is to submit a
statement in form 24G (Rule 30(4) (a)).
e = The PAO/DDO/Treasury officer is also to intimate Book
Identification Number to each of Deductors (Rule
31(4)(b)).
e = Along with Form 16 details of Tax deducted and deposited
by Book entry in respect of the employee has to be provided
in Annexure A.
2.7.7 Issue of TDS certificates by way of digital
signatures

As per circular No.
2/2007 dt.
21.5.2007, the deductors may
at their option, in respect of the tax to be deducted at source from
income chargeable under the head Salaries, use their digital
signatures to authenticate the certificates of deduction of tax at
source in form No.16.
However, the deductors will have to ensure
the following;

(a) that TDS certificates in Form No.
16 bearing digital signatures
have a control No.
with log to be maintained by the employer
(deductor).
(b) the deductor is to ensure that its TAN, PAN of the employee,
Book Indentification Number/Challan Identification Number
are correctly mentioned in such Form No.
16 issued with
digital signatures.
(c) that once the certificates are digitally signed, the contents of
the certificates are not amenable to change by anyone.