2.
For the aforesaid purpose the responsibility of specifying
the procedures format, and standard for ensuring secure
capture and a transmission of data and for day to day
administration will be of DGIT (Systems).
3.
Where tax has been deposited accompanied by an Income-
tax challan the amount tax deducted or collected shall be
deposited to the crdit of the Central Government by
remitting it within the time specified in above (Rule 30).
2.6.4 Electronic payment of taxes

An optional scheme of electronic payment of taxes for income-
tax was introduced in 2004.
However with a view to expand the
scope of electronic payment of taxes, the scheme of electronic
payment of taxes has been made mandatory (vide notification
No.
34/2008 dt.
13.3.2008 of CBDT) for the following categories
of tax-payers (referred in rule 125(1)).
(i) All corporate assessees;

(ii) All assessees (other than company) to whom provisions of
section 44AB of the Income Tax Act are applicable.
2.
The scheme of mandatory electronic payment of taxes for
income-tax payers has been made applicable from 1* April, 2008
and is also applicable to payment of taxes to Government account
where tax has been deducted at source.
3.
The Income-tax (6 Amendment Rules) 2010
(Notification dt.
31/5/2010 provides that for category of
assessees as mentioned above who are compulsorily to make
electronic payment of TDS; such payment is to be remitted into
R.B.1., S.B.I.
or any autorized bank accompanied by an
electronic Income-tax challan.
The electronic remittance can
be made :

(a) By internet banking facility of RBI, SBI or the
authorized Bank.
(b) By Credit or Debit Card.
However, for payments deducted prior to 1/4/2010 the
provisions of rule prior to this amendment will apply.
2.7 Issue of T.D.S.
Certificate

2.7.1 Every person deducting tax at source is required as per
Section 203 to furnish a certificate to the payee to the effect that
tax has been deducted along with certain other particulars.
This
certificate is usually called the TDS certificate.
Even the banks
deducting tax at the time of payment of pension are required to
issue such certificates.
In case of employees receiving salary
income including pension, the certificate has to be issued in form
No.16.
The certificate is to be issued in the deductor’s own
stationery.
However, there is no obligation to issue TDS certificate
in case of tax at source is not deducted /deductible by virtue of
claims of exemptions/ deductions.
° Vide Income-tax (6" Amendment) Rules 2010, a new Form
No.
16 has been notified which will be applicable for tax
deductions after 1/4/2010 (refer Annexure-1 of this book
for new form).
e The deductor is also to provide relevant information of
tax deduction and deposition vide book entry or challan
vide Annexure A and Annexure B of this new form 16.

e Besides the deductor is also required to specify the
following in Form No.
16

(a) Valid Permanent account number (PAN) of the deductee;

(b) valid tax deduction and collection account number
(TAN) of the deductor;