CHAPTER-2
OVER VIEW OF THE TDS

PROVISIONS

2.1 Introduction :

Section 192 of the I.T.Act, 1961 provides that every person
responsible for paying any income which is chargeable under the
head ‘salary’, shall deduct income tax on the estimated income of
the assessee under the head salaries.
The tax is required to be
calculated at the average rate of income tax as computed on the
basis of the rates in force.
The deduction is to be made at the time
of the actual payment.
However, no tax is required to be deducted
at source, unless the estimated salary income exceeds the maximum
amount not chargeable to tax applicable in case of an individual
during the relevant financial year.
The tax once deducted is required
to be deposited in government account and a certificate of deduction
of tax at source (also referred as Form No.16) is to be issued to the
employee.
This certificate is to be furnished by the employee with
his income tax return after which he gets the credit of the TDS in
his personal income tax assessment.
Finally, the employer/deductor
is required to prepare and file quarterly statements in Form No.24Q
with the Income-tax Department.
2.2 Who is to deduct tax

The statute requires deduction of tax at source from the income
under the head salary.
As such the existence of “employer-employee”
relationship is the “sine-qua-non” for taxing a particularreceipt under
the head salaries.
Sucha relationship is said to exist when the employee
notonly works under the direct control and supervision of hisemployer
butalso is subject to the right of the employer to control the manner in
which he carries out the instructions.
Thus the law essentially requires
the deduction of tax when;

(a) Payment is made by the employer to the employee.
(b) The payment is in the nature of salary and

(c) The income under the head salaries is above the maximum
amount not chargeable to tax.
For the various categories of employers, the persons
responsible for making payment under the head salaries and for
deduction of tax are as below:

In the case of,

1.
Central/State Government/P.S.U - The designated
drawing &
disbursing officers.
2.
Private & Public Companies

The company
itself as also the
principal officer
thereof.
3.
Firm - The managing
partners/partner of
the firm.
4.
HUF - Karta of the HUF

5.
Proprietorship concern - The proprietor of
the said concern.
6.
‘Trusts - Managing trustees
thereof.
In case of accompany, it is to be noted, that though the company
may designate an officer /employee to make payments on the behalf

'As per sub section 4 of Sec 192, the trustees of a recognised provident fund
are required to deduct tax at source at the time of making payment of the
accumulated balance due to an employee.
The TDS is to be made in a case
where sub-rule 9 of part - A of Fourth Schedule of the Act applies and the
deduction is to be made as per rule 10 of part A of Fourth Schedule.